WB4APR's FUTURE DIGI WISH LIST                                1 Dec 2004
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      revised 6 May 2005
This is my wish list for future digis:


1) Include Tracing on the UIFLOOD parameter as well as UITRACE.

2) Allow a SYSOP limit on N's for each UIFLOOD and UITRACE

4) Do dupe-comparisons on all digipeats, not just UIFLOOD ones.

When the digi hears a WIDEn-N where "n minus N" is greater or equal to 
the N-limit, then the packet is digipeated, but the WIDEn-N position in
the digi list is replaced with two fields:    MYDIGI,QRTn-N.  This shows
which digi stopped the packet and what the origional n-N was. Hopefully
this can be used as feedback to the sender to fix his path.

This violates my usual preference to never "filter or ignore" a user's 
chosen path, but in this case, this digi is saying "OK, Ill take it, but 
I will not further propagate it and add to the problems further along".

6) And my last request would be for an OUTPUT bit out of the TNC that
can be used to SWITCH transmitters (or Xtals) based on what the digi 
wants to do with the packet.
   a) If it is a packet to be ignored, it could still "digipeat" it, 
      but turn this bit ON so that an alternate channel (say local UHF) 
      transmitter can be triggerd so that these long-haul or unwelcome 
      packets can be alternately routed around this city, or can be 
      monitored remotely to see what packets are being "ignored".

   b) This could be extended with an "ALT-PATH" parameter such that an 
      incoming packet with the "alt-path" in the digi field would always 
      trigger this alt-path

   c) For example, this digi could alt-route ALL WIDEn-N packets to get 
      them around this city, but let them further propogate on an 
      alternate WIDEn-N backbone.

   d) Remote sysop could momentarily also turn on this bit to route 
      EVERYTHING the digi is hearing down on an alt channel for analysis

Anyway, just some thoughts on where we need to be going in the 
future...

de WB4APR, Bob
