APRS ALT-PRIORITY Input Channel for LOCAL stations           10 Jul 2004
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updated 19 Oct 2005

Alternate frequency input digipeaters is a great and easy improvement for 
local APRS reliability,  AND it can be done independently of what any 
other digipeater owners do.  It is simply the additon of an alternate 
locally coordinated APRS input frequency to give local stations priority 
over the local 144.39 channel.  Packets heard on this very quiet low 
dutycycle channel are then digipeated in occasional short bursts over on 
144.39.  Advantages:

- Drastically reduces collisions for locals (improves reliability)
- Is a local issue that can be implemented locally and independently
- Can use any existing TNC' with NO software/firmware upgrades to digis.
- Or, with software can do WX conversion to standard WX format for Kenwoods

Implementation is simple:
1) Existing digi hardware on 144.39 is unchanged
2) Add a new TNC and Receiver on the local alternate input 
   (144.99 if avail)which then digipeats those packets over to 144.39

Additional options:
3) Connect the original TNC PTT, and DCD lines to new TNC 
   external CD line.  Connect its PTT to the original TNC's XCD.
4) Connect the new TNC TX audio and PTT to the 144.39 TX

This way the alternate RX channel TNC waits for 144.39 to clear, before
it transmits.  The cross connected PTT's and DCD's to the external CD 
lines assure they will not collide when both trying to use the XMTR.  
Though for only a few low powere trackers, none of this is necessary.

The TNC settings are:

MYCALL:    99ANAP  The first two bytes are the Freq (144.99 here)
                   and then some local abbreviation (Annapolis here)
                   because we want all these TNCs to have a unique
                   call so that they are distinct on FINDU.  

BText:     Standard DIGI position report.

BEACON:    Every 10 minutes direct.  (it only serves direct users!)

UNPROTO:   APALT    (direct to the APALT TO-CALL with no VIA path)

XCD:       External CD enabled (if used)

FIXED AND WX STATION SETTINGS:  The users of this back door alt freq
simply include the callsign of this digi in their outgoing path.  For 
example:  VIA 99ANAP,WIDE2-1.  Note, with home stations designating a 
specific digi, the path is traceable even if this is a dumb TNC with
no callsign substitution possible.  Since there are so few locals
compared to the 95% of other distant stations that would hit this digi,
the probability of a collision is drastically reduced.  

MOBILES and LOW POWER TRACKERS:  This alternate local channel also
drastically improves the probability of a mobile or low power tracker
being heard.  Being on this input-only channel, they only have to complete
with the very rare local packets, instead of the other 95% of QRM
packets from out of area.  When their packet is digipeated over from
the alt-channel to the 144.39, their local packet reliability has
improved by an order of magnitude or more.

SOFTWARE IMPROVEMENT #1.

For an additional benefit to Mobile Kenwoods that cannot currently decode 
the RAW stand-alone Peet Brothers WX packets, a nice level of improvemnt 
can be gained with a processor that collects all the non-standard APRS WX 
reports and  weatherless position and positionless weather, and converts 
them all to the standard COMPLETE format before dumping them on 144.39.  
Also, bundeling then in groups of 5 makes for a nice neat channel burst 
of weather and one full screen display on the Kenwoods LIST.  Nothing is 
lost in thie bundling because WX is only flashed on the Kenwood display
raw anyway when first received and the user has always had to "select" a 
WX station on his radio front panel to see the actual weather anyway.  But 
going to all the trouble of a PC at the site instead of a dumb TNC might 
make this option simply not worth it.

SOFTWARE IMPROVEMENT #2:

The software can also implement the OBJECT bundling included in APRS1.1, 
further improving channel efficiency.  See the links on the APRS 1.1 SPEC.
This added capability makes a PC more valuable at the digi.


STAND-ALONE ALT-DIGI:

Alternatively, in an area that is saturated with too many digis already, 
simply convert one HIGH digi that already hears too much over completely 
to this new method.  One TNC, One radio.  It just receives on the "fixed" 
local priority channel and TX's on 144.39.  It can have the 555 bundler
or not and it may or may not have a separate CSMA RX on 144.39.  Reason
being, if it is high enough, it probably hears wall-to-wall packets on
144.39 anyway, and the CSMA gives no real advantage.

Think of this concept as a back-door into your local digi that is almost
two orders of magnitude less vulnerable to collisions.  Also, when the digi 
does re-transmit these local packets, they can be inserted seamlessly using 
CSMA into the existing 144.39 while fully honoring the collision avoidance 
of the digi which is well situated to hear all other potential signals on 
the channel.  Thus everyone wins...

HERE IS A CONDENSATION OF FOLLOW-ON DISCUSSION FROM THE APRSSIG:

* If the frequency of 144.99 is available in your area, see if you can
get it coordinated for this application.  It then lets all users simply 
use the +600 KHz offset on their radios

* ANY TNC can be  used, since no smart digipeating is needed to get
the packet from the alt channel to the 144.39 channel.  The digi's
actual call is used.  If there is more than one in an area, use SSID's 
99ANAP-2 etc...  Even if there are two such inputs that are in RF range 
of each other, they doubtfully will hear the same ground level fixed 
users AND there are no dupes because the given site is specifically 
called out in the path by callsign.

* Notice that EVERY ONE still listens to everything on 144.39 so
nothing is lost and the channel operated normally even for visitors.

* Since only fixed stations or local mobiles use this new alt-channel 
input, the locations of these new alt-channel inputs can be much more 
sparse than normal digis because with the clear channel, the locals 
packets do not have to overpower distant QRM as they do now.

* Fixed and WX stations are transmitting in the blind on the alternate
input channel but since there are only so many of these stations in the 
range of this alternate channel input, it has been shown that the chance
of a collision  even with 14 home stations and 6 WX stations all in
simplex range is down around 3% or less.  Listening first only changes
this by 0.3%, because any one station cannot hear most of the other
stations sharing the input anyway.  This guaranteeed low collision 
rate without CSMA compared to the very high rate you otherwise would get 
on 144.39 even with CSMA is what makes this so attractive.

* There really is not much advantage to dual CSMA on both channels
because because the loading on the alternate channel locally is so 
low.  The probability that you are colliding with a local packet
is very low.  And the purpose of this system is to give LOCAL 
priority!

* Home stations serving as local WIDE1-1's are not affected.  They
still will hear mobiles on 144.39 and although they send the packet
via the back-door on the alternate channel, the packet still gets to 
144.39 as before.

* By activating this second channel and maintaining a few digis
there this does provide a backup channel for passing traffic during
emergencies or special needs.  Or even maintaining home station
BBS's for end delivery (on-air BBS mail reading is not desired).
Though  you cannot use the alt-digis function for reading mail 
because they collide with 144.39 traffic.  But the FREQUENCY is 
available for direct connects if needed.

* The advantages of this alternate channel are because of its low
usage.  If a few local stations become active and begin heavily 
using the channel say with APRS messages, then some of the
advnatages to others are lost.  Users should consider QSYing to the
main 144.39 in this case.  Or conversly, let the single heavy user
such as the EOC stay on the alt channel so that he DOES get priority
CSMA service at the digi without other 144.39 competition...

* Igates continue to function normally.  But the best 24/7 IGate
should clearly be on this alt-channel so that it gets the advantage
of good CSMA at the digi for its packets..  Though as usual, good
placement and minimization of duplicate IGates is good practice.

ANALYSIS OF BENEFITS:
---------------------

In our area, with a 120 Height above average terrain, there are no more than
about 17 fixed home stations (3 are WX) and 3 stand-alone WX stations.  These
add to about 52 packets per 30 minutes or about 1 every 35 seconds for a
probability of collision on the non-CSMA input channel of about 3%.  The 
benefit is determined by how much better this probability is than if they
transmitted on the 144.39 channel and it's much worse probabilities.

--------------
de WB4APR, Bob
