APRS UHF BACKBONES for HIGH-SITE DIGIS                       17 April 2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    WB4APR

To solve the problem of TOO MUCH TRAFFIC on 144.39, the HIGH sites that are
hearing too much in dense areas must be silenced or converted to backbones.

This is an easy overnight cold-turkey phase-1 approach.... Leave these
digis in place, listening on 144.39 but transmit on UHF.  That reduces
channel load immensly right off the bat.   I call these digis as HIGHx
sites.  

SPLIT WIDEn-N TRAFFIC TO UHF:  Or you can leave a 144.39 RELAY/WIDE digipeater 
at this high site to serve local users, but disable WIDEn-N packets so that 
this digi does not FLOOD the area with DX WIDEn-N traffic.  If everyone still 
wants to see this WIDEn-N traffic, simply add a second WIDEn-N TNC that 
continues to listen on 144.39, but its transmitter is on UHF.  Thus none of 
this traffic is lost if someone wants to put an IGate on the UHF channel 
or tune there just to read the mail.  THis is a right-now-no-new-hardware 
approach.

INTERLEAVING MULTIPLE RECEIVERS:
The next step at these sites, is to install multiple 144.39 
receivers and TNC's but with separate BEAMS situated so that packets 
arriving from different directions do NOT collide, but are each processed 
simultaneously by the different TNC's.  For example, a HIGH3 site has three 
different beams in 3 directions...

HIGH1:  1 RX on 144.39.  hears everything but transmits on UHF.
HIGH2:  2 RX on 144.39.  Beams collect packets from valleys on either side
HIGH3:  3 RX on 144.39.  3 directions covered with narrower beams
HIGH4:  4 RX on 144.39.  4 directions covered with low tower leg beams

They all transmit only on UHF so thats a 50% channel booster already even
for a HIGH1 site.  A HIGH4 site can see a 8 fold increase in traffic...

Notice the INSTANT advantages of these HIGHx site conversions:

1) Factor of 2, 4, 6 or 8 improvement in throughput and reduction in QRM.
First a factor of two because each HIGH digi is now operating cross band
full duplex. So it is not adding to  channel QRM.  Additional factors of X
because each site has X multiple receivers.

2) Notice that even for the HIGH4 digi, the output can still be 1200 baud!
Since the ALOHA saturation rate is on the order of 18%, then that means 5
such channels can all be heard at a HIGH4 site and fed into a single 1200
baud UHF transmitter without saturation.

3) Instant gratification in that this is still just a DUMB digipeater, and
no software, firmware or anythign has to be developed.  ALthough I think
DIGI_NED software on an old  PC may be required for the multiple ports.

4) Regional IGates simply listen to the UHF output of their HIGH digi so
they can still hear everything, just like what the HIGH site hears.

5) FIxed stations or mobiles desiring to see everything the HIGH site is
hearing can also just tune in to the UHF output for their area.  They
still transmit on 144.39.

6) Coordination (other than to get a UHF freq) is not required.  The HIGH
sites only listen on 144.39, so they cannot add to QRM on 144.39.

7) Low local digis still listen and transmit on 144.39 and provide full
100% APRS connectivity to everyone in the local area using the simple RELAY
and WIDE local paths, but their digipeated packets go no further than the 
nearest HIGH site where they then are backboned to the internet, or adjacent 
other HIGH sites or whatever..

USERS:  Users may think that they are being cut off.  But this should not
be the case.  What it does is eliminate all out-of-area QRM from their
area so that now they CAN hear their "local" low area digi.  They can hear
the HIGH stuff any time by tuning in the UHF downlink.

Now LOCAL areas can gain BACK some control over their 144.39 LAN by
installing their OWN low-area 144.39 digis for their area of interest.
These digis support the APRS universal RELAY,WIDE and WIDEn-N so that APRS
gets back to working like it is supposed to.  A few hops through these low
digis should cover quite an area.  And everything gets into an IGate
somewhere for FINDU and all the other magic of APRS...  In these digis
WIDEn-N digipeating of out-of-area packets can be turned on and off at
will remotely to throttle out of area QRM from flooding the local network.

This will give us a year or two of breathing room to develop any
higherorder backbone logic that would then LINK the HIGH's together.

For HIGH2,3, or 4's, remember, that you dont need sensitivity, what you
need is DIRECTIVITY.  SO you can run 100 feet or RG58 if  you need to one
beam on one side of the hill (low down) and then another cable to the
other side of the hill at the base of the tower so that both independent
144.39 receivers do in fact hear two different areas at the same time.

Yes, they will hear opposite side signals too, but they should be 10 dB or
more weaker and that is all you need for FM capture effect.  These
directional receivers are NOT intended to hear mobiles, but only the
cluster of LOW digis on that side of the mountain.  The multiple low digis
are supposed to hear the mobiles and they CAN because they are no longer
QRM'ed by bazillions of other cross state traffic on 144.39 coming in from
the mountaintops...

It would be fun to sit down with a TOPO map of SOCAL and look at each HIGH
digi and figure out whether it needs to be a HIGH1,2,3 or 4 site...

In summary, GET CONTROL OVER YOUR LAN.
1) Disable WIDEn-N digipeating of long haul traffic entering your busy LAN
1) Shut down the XMTRS of the really high sites, or move them to UHF
2) Connect a second TNC to route WIDEn-N packets to UHF.  Keep RELAY/WIDE on 39.
3) IGates listen to the high site UHF outputs
4) Start installing more low site RELAY/WIDE digis that dont do WIDEn-N

Just a suggestion.  Again, this only applies to HIGH site digis that can
see LARGE population densities.  It does NOT necessarily apply to HIGH
site digis in remote areas.  Each area needs to design to TOPOGRAPHY.
Every site is different.

de WB4APR, Bob
