APRS NETWORK PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT  (PHGR)                 12 Jan 2009
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  WB4APR
26 Feb 2003  Original proposal for APRS1.2

This proposal suggests the addition of a BYTE of info to the APRS
packet that indicates its transmission periodicity to make overall 
network assesment easier.
 
Due to collisions and the abilty of strong nearby stations to always win
a collision, general statistics of packets-heard cannot be used as a 
measure of APRS network performance.  The ONLY way to measure the 
reliability of an APRS channel is the sucess rate of the "typical 
intended user" in the "intended area of interest".  This cannot be 
measured by channel statistics because the stronger stations will 
always get through no matter how bad the channel 
(at the expense of  the lower power or more distant station)...
 
So, the BEST measure of packet performance is simply measuring the 
statistical performance of "probe" packets that are transmitted from 
"the indended user class station" on the edge of the "intended user 
coverage area"...  If he gets in X% of the time, then your network is 
operating at X% reliability in that area!

Fortunately, every fixed station has a default beacon rate.  We can 
use these as probes, if we know what their periodicity is.  One way 
is to add a byte somewhere in the packet that can be interpreted as
a periodicity byte.
 
Since what normally follows a PHGxxxx string is a delimiter and 
additional optional free-format text, we can add a digit to the PHG
string for this purpose, and the only impact is a right shift of
the optional free text by one byte.

Knowing how often a "probe" packet is transmitted from one location, 
and comparing that to how often it is received somewhere else can 
tell you everything about APRS network reliability.  Imagine a 
CONTOUR map showing contours of reliability in your area (derived in 
real time!).

The single byte is simply a character 1 to 9 or A to Z added onto the 
end of the PHG string which indicates PHG packets-per-hour transmitted.  
To show that this is an addition to the PHG string, a trailing "/" is 
used as a separator to any other text that follows.

Then software can watch these PHGR probes and COUNT statistics and derive 
REASONABLE reliabilty figures, plots and statistics!
 
By adding it to PHG, it is 100% backwards compatible to existing
parsing of PHG data...  To give it a name, instead of "PROBES" we simply
call it the "PHGR" data...  Here is the FORMAL SPEC for PHGR:

  PHG is (and remains)  "PHGabcd........"
 
  PHGR is  "PHGabcdr/......
 
  Where a,b,c,d are as defined in the APRS spec.
  Where r is the integer rate of PHGR packets XMTD in packets per hour
          expressed as a single byte 1-9 and A-Z (A is 10 for example).
 
And we add a specific "/" separator between the PHGR and any following
text to help flag this as the new PHGR format.  All existing software on
receive should still receive the "PHGabcd" with no impact, since no
following character was ever specified..   And since the only field that
follows a PHG is a variable length free-text comment field (except DF),
the addition of the "/" on the front of that field does not disrupt
understanding of the comment field.

On transmit, most client applications transmit either a "/" or a SPACE 
as a separator before any free text that follows anyway, and these 
delimiters are ignored as leading delimiters in the free field
comment text, so in this case, we are just forcing that now to be a "/"
to add reliability in recognizing the new PHGR digit.
 
EXCEPTIONS:  

1) WHen FREQUENCY was added as the first 10 bytes of free-field text
in the 2007+ time frame, this frequency is offset if the full PHGR is
used, and this will result in failed parsing of the FREQUENCY.  So do
not use PHGR when FREQUENCY is also included in the packet.

2) If a PHGR packet is sent out of its normal schedule (for
example, in response to a QUERY), then the "R" byte is stuffed with a
"0" to show that it is an unscheduled PHGR packet and should not be used
in Statistical analysis of packets transmtted and received unless both
counts are both incremented by one, depending on the choice of the
analyzing software.  Or an OLD PHG format may be sent.

3) It is very important that EVEYONE understand the purpose of PHGR is
for measuring network reliability from a "typical intended user" at 
a "particular location in an intended area of coverage" and that by that 
definition, only fixed stations are suitable and obviously should not 
be applied to non typical user stations such as:

   * Wide area Digipeaters (we can all hear them anyway...)
   * Digipeaters or any station with variable rates and paths
   * Moving stations,
   * any stations beaconing more often than once every 6 minutes
   * any stations beaconing less often that once every hour
   * any DF station sending a DF report

4) If you want to measure a mobile over an area, then you dont need PHGR!
Simply set a fixed rate, drive around, and then count your own hits.

Did I miss something or is this the no cost holy grail of measuring
network performance?  Wow, I'd love to see the kind of analysis and
display software that could use this info...  Especially reliability 
coutours drawn on maps!
 
Bob, WB4APR