GENERIC CALLSIGNS FOR NATIONAL APRS EVENTS                 20 Oct 2005
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The purpose of these National Generic Callsigns is so that APRS can 
be used to support connectivity between widely and sparsely situated
groups on special events.  Examples of such groups and generic calls
are:

    SCOUTS, JOTA, GUARD,  KIDS,  SCR,  REDCROSS, 
    SATERN, ARES, RACES,  MARS,  CAP,  SKYWARN
    FOUR-H, CQFD, YOUTH,  ARMAD

We can use FINDU.COM to get downloadable and printable lists of all 
stations that intend to participate in an event or are currently 
active in that event.  Stations wanting to make contacts during the 
event can print out the list before going into the field, and then 
can send normal APRS messages to other stations on the list whereever 
they may be via the normal  APRS-IS system.  To make this automatic, 
here is how it works:

1) Prior to the event, stations desiring to be on a list simply send 
an APRS message to one of the National Generic Calls listed above.

2) In his 1-line message he can share any particulars that might be 
of interest to others.  Such as location and special notes.

3) Anyone can download the list of all such stations for any given
national generic callsign by entering it into the CALL parameter in
the following URL:

    http://www.findu.com/cgi-bin/msg.cgi?call=scouts

This system is in place and works.  All we have to do for each event
is make sure people know how to send their messages to appear on the
list and how to download the list prior to the event.

For the upcoming ARMAD event on 14 Novermber, just pur armad in
place of "scouts" in teh above URL.

EXAMPLE OF USE:  For scouting's annual one-day JOTA or Jamboree-On-
the-Air, for example, we want the capability for a JOTA station to 
send an APRS MESSAGE to other JOTA stations, but in APRS, you need
to know the callsigns of someone to send any traffic.  So those
stations intending to participate should plan on sending a message
prior to the event to JOTA so that they will appear on the list.

All JOTA stations should download the FINDU.COM list for that JOTA
callsign and take it with them to the field.  During the event, 
then, you will have a list of calls and contacts you can try to make 
via APRS from anywhere on the planet.

POSITIONS:  Remember that once the IGates see traffic between 
stations A and B, then they will also send a courtesy POSIT so you 
also can see each other on the map.  Thats how the APRS IGate 
systems are supposed to work.  

See you on the air on JOTA!

de WB4APR-7

