APRS TRAFFIC MONITORING SYSTEM                                  27 May 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

During routine operations and even during stress and emergencies, I can
think of nothing of more value to the situational awareness of the local
county and APRS communications operators than knowing the flow of traffic 
and locations of bottlenecks.  Therefore, APRS needs to include provisions 
for distributing to mobile users (radio front panels or heads-up displays)
the speed of traffic at key locations.

For this reason, even back in 1995, I included the SIGN-POST map symbol 
that can display the speed of moving traffic past a point on the map.
The problem has always been how to get speed data.  Now solutions are at
hand, so we need to concentrate on how to best fully integrate this into
a standardized APRS process with efficiency and so as not to overburden 
an already busy network.  APRStfc.exe is a crude system for local use,
but we need a much larger and more universal system compatible with 
present and future internet sources of this data such as the data posted
by the Maryland CHARTS system on: 

               http://www.chart.state.md.us/travinfo/speedData.asp

APRS TRAFFIC PLAN:

So what we need is *local* SIGN-POSTING built into every internet-capable 
APRS client just like such clients now serve messages to local users.
These clients watch the local sources of SPEED data and as needed update
the SPEED-POST in their immediate vicinity using either a DIRECT or the 
minimum path needed to post the APRS SPEED-POST symbol in that area.

Thus, updating a SPEED-POST does not QRM large areas and each such update 
(say once every 10 minutes even under stress) uses up no more than 0.01 
of local channel capacity and is only heard immediately in the vicinity 
of the congestion and only where that bit of informaiton is of value.  
The following are the salient characteristics of such a system:

CLIENTS PERFORM THE FOLLOWING TASKS:
1) check the local county or state internet traffic speed file every 5 mins
2) check own-list of SPEED-POSTS this client SYSOP has volunteered to update
3) If avg speed is as before, update SPEED-POST object once every 10 minutes
4) If change in average speed is +/- 20%, then update SPEED-POST now.
5) Then decay rate back down to 10 minutes after a few   minutes
5) Send DIRECT, or at most, via one local digi in vicinity of SPEED-POST.

METRO-CZAR:
In each major METRO area, a Speed-Post-CZAR clinent automatically monitors 
all local APRS speed-post objects and maintains a list of all active clients 
and what speed posts they are reporting.  The purpose of this is to manage 
dupes.  If two clients are updating the same SPEED-POST, the Czar sends an 
APRS-IS message to one of the clients telling it to hold off reporting at 
this time.

CLIENT SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS:

Parsing:  The local client front-end parser will probably be unique for each state
or county depending on the kind of traffic reporting system they use, so this
part of the client code has to be flexible for easy changing of the parser.
(I hope the governments are working to standardize the format of these
files!)...

APRS Speed-Post objects:  The format of the speed-post object must be 
compatible with present systems such as the Kenwood TH-D7 and D700 mobile radios
as well as the HAMhud.  To this end the following format is required:

;nnnnnnnnn*DDHHMMzDDMM.hhN\DDDMM.hhWmDIR/SPD/{SP} MPH  Time HHMM by CCCCCC-SS

Where:  nnnnnnnnn is the name of the location of the SPeed post
        DDHHMMz   is the time of the data
        DDMM.hhN  is the latitude of the report
        DDDMM.hhW is the longitude of the report
        DIR/SPD   is the direction and speed (knots) of traffic at that point
        {SP}      is the speed in MPH
        HHMM      is the hour and minute local time of the post
        CCCCCC-SS is the source of the report

This causes the data to flash on the Kenwood TH-D7 and TM-D700 front 
panels as follows:

+--------------+
| 1:nnnnnnnnn  |
|   {SP} MPH   |
|   time DDMM  |
+--------------+

And on the TM-D700 station/object page as:  
+----------------------------------+
| {SP} MPH  Time HHMM by CCCCCC-SS |
+----------------------------------+


Adding this capabilty into APRS in a standard and consistent manner will
benefit APRS users everywhere as they will automaticlly be provided in 
the simplest hands-off method, the critical data that is most needed in
their mobiles in their immediate vicinity.

De WB4APR, Bob



