READING DATA on the TM-D700 FRONT PANEL                       18 Jan 07
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    Updated 10 Jan 2011

The display head of a D700 radio is attached to the top of a clipboard
at Headquarters.  The net control can read APRS messages with scores
there.

This gouge sheet tells the new operator how to retrieve incoming 
message data from the APRS front panel of the D700 mobile radio on the
clipboard.  This makes it easy to keep a backup paper log of all 
incoming data from the event stations that are using a D7 for message 
data entry.  THey have a separate gouge sheet.

BASICS:  Hit the lower left FUNCTION key or ESC key to get out of any
menu or function you may accidentally get into.  When a new message
comes in, it will FLASH on the screen for 10 seconds, and will then 
go away.  You can force it to go away earlier with the ESC key.

DUAL BAND:  The TM-D700 is dual band with band A on the voice frequency 
of 146.43 MHz and the band B is on the APRS data channel for this 
event of 445.925 MHz.

POSITION REPORTING: If used, Manually enter the LAT/LONG of your station 
using the POS key.  A list of station positions is provided.  If used,
activate automatic position reporting once every 10 minutes via the MENU
select APRS, select DATA TX = AUTO.  Select TX INTERVAL 10.

MESSAGE BASICS:  The D700 uses a multi-press key function to enter 
characters from the microphone key pad.  The NETCON operator will
probably not be sending any messages, however.  Pressing the ABC key 
three times generates the letter "C".  Pressing it four times 
generates "2". etc...  If two consecutive characters from the same 
KEY are needed, press the A DTMF A key to move to the next byte 
position.  THe "0" key is also the SPACE key.

MESSAGE RECEIPT:  To read any incoming messages, simply press the
MSG key.  Then select LIST.  This will display a list of 5 message
headers at a time.  You can scroll up and down the list with either
the up and down arrow buttons, or the tuning knob to select a message
to read.  Then press the OK button.

Or if you are already reading a message, you can also go up and down
to the next or previous message with the same up/dn keys or tuning
knob.  When you have read a message you can delete it with the DEL
key, or you can just leave it there and let it be overwritten by the
next incoming message.  A MESSAGE UN-READ indicator shows those 
messages that have been read, and those not yet read.

OPERATIONS:  You can either use the UN-READ message indicators to keep
track of new messages, or just delete each message as it is recorded
to keep the message list clean and ready for new messages.

CAPACITY:  The D700 can hold up to 16 messages.  Unlike the D7, you
can individually delete them.  IF you have read all your messages,
then each time you enter a new one, or receive a new one, the oldest
one will be overwritten.  If you get 16 new messages without ever
reading any, then the radio will reject any new messages.  This is 
bad as it blocks all further communication.  But once you read at 
least ONE unread message, then all 16 are vulnerable to being 
overwritten.  So each time you check messages, read all new traffic.

WB4APR


