EVENT DATA ENTRY FROM A TH-D7 HT                              10 Jan 07
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    Updated 10 Jan 2011

Instead of just the D7 APRS radio we have used for the last decade,
there are now 8 APRS radios:  D7, D72, D700, D710, VX8R, VX8DR, VX8GR, 
and the FTM350.  Therefore I cannot give detailed instructinos for 
each.  SO you must learn how to send and receive APRS messages on your
own radio.  I will use the D7, however, as an example.

This sheet shows the handheld or mobile operator how to enter an APRS 
message for sending scoring data to headquarters (HEADQ).  The radios
are dual band and will operate data on UHF 445.925 so they can operate
independently and without QRM to the voice on VHF.

SETUP:  Set the APRS band to 445.925 and the VHF voice band to __TBD_.
In the Kenwoods use the B band for UHF APRS and A band for voice.

BASICS:  You can use the left-joy-stick to ESC out of any mode or menu 
at any time.  You can use the DUAL key to toggle on or off the unused 
A or B side of the radio if desired to save power.  You can select A 
or B band with the A/B button.

POSITION REPORTING: If used, Manually enter the LAT/LONG of your station 
using the POS key.  A list of station positions has been provided for 
this event or a map with a LAT/LON grid that you interpolate to your
position.  If used, set automatic position reporting once every 10 
minutes via the APRS MENU, set DATA TX = AUTO.  Select TX INTERVAL 10.
Update your position at any time by toggling the BCON button twice.

MESSAGE BASICS:  The D7 keypad uses a multi-press key function to enter 
characters. Pressing the ABC key three times generates the letter "C".
Pressing it four times generates "2".  If two consecutive characters
from the same KEY are needed, press the right-joystick-OK button to 
move to the next byte position.  The "0" key is also the SPACE key.

MESSAGE SENDING:  Preload a TEST message to HEADQ giving a score or 
report in the anticipated format for the event.  In this scout scoring
event, enter a message containing a troop number 999 and score 99. This 
makes future reports easy by only modifying the digits of the previous 
one.  Use these steps to modify an existing message to send a new one:

1) Press MSG key.
2) Select LIST with the OK button (joy stick)
3) This brings up the last message.  
4) Right digit, or * indicates number of retries, or ACK received.
5) Press MSG key again to prepare a new msg to same receipient (HEADQ)
6) Use up/dn joystick to modify each digit for the new message
7) press OK button to move to next byte
8) press OK at end of message and it will be sent.
9) An ACK will be received eventuallly from HEADQ
A) The ack will show as a (*) on the message list.

CAPACITY:  The D7 can hold up to 16 messages.  You cannot delet them
but each time you enter a new one, or receive a new one, the oldest
one will be overwritten.  If you get 16 new messages without ever
reading any, then the HT will reject any new messages.  But once you
read at least ONE message, then all 16 are vulnerable to being over-
written.  So each time you check messages, read all new traffic.

POWER SAVING:  If the data channel is not too busy, you can use it
to do voice chatting as well.  This way, you can save power, by
turning off the band A channel and then HEADQ can always contact 
you by calling on the data channel by voice.  Having the data
channel on UHF avoids any interference to the normal event voice
channel which is on 2m usually.

WB4APR