          A Portable Reflector S-Band (APRS) Antenna
                   Bob Bruninga, WB4APR

This APRS Antenna (sorry, I couldn't resist the name) is designed to 
be a portable lightweight communications antenna for the traveler who 
needs ready access to worldwide satellite voice communications via 
AO-40.  It is not designed to be a permanent outdoors antenna system
suitable for all weather conditions.  It uses mixed metals and non 
weather proof motor positioning controls.  But beyond these limitations,
it is a neat, foldable (much assembly required) 1 meter antenna system 
including a tripod and remote control motor system that will fit in a 
normal suitcase (24" long).  Or the dish can be trimmed to 21" panels
to fit in any industry standard suitcase.  

The Reflector System is based on the foldable vegetable spreader concept
of 16 wedges deployed around a central hub and held in place by a
web of radial spokes.  An F/D ratio of .3 was chosen for the best 
match to the readily available AIDC 3033 and other simple dipole feed
systems.   Using an unmodified AIDC converter (but with the 1/4 wave
stub filter removed), the dish provides a measured 11 dB SNR on the
middle beacon.  Making the filter mods improves this to 14 dB SNR or 
better.

The portable mount and remote control system takes advantage of the near 
zero inclination of the AO-40 orbit by using a polar mount.  With this 
mount, not only is almost all tracking movement done with just one motor,
but also alignment is trivial. 

The polar mount has the primary axis of rotation aligned with the earths
polar axis.  Thus with the 2 degree inclination of AO-40, the antenna
is never more than 4 degrees or so off of the satellite in the up/down
direction.  Since this is within the beamwidth of the antenna, you can
always find AO-40 by just setting the up/down tweaking motor to center
and moving the antenna about the polar axis until you find the beacon.
From then on, you can track AO-40 for hours with only occassional bumps
of the polar motor.

Alignment only requires pointing the front leg of the mount towards south
and then lengthening or shortening the legs to achieve a tilt angle for
the polar axis that equals your station's latitude.

The APRS Antenna was designed entirely of readily available Home Depot 
plumbing and electrical fittings and parts.  The total cost of these
parts is less than $xx.   The two electrical screwdrivers used for the
drive system add an additional $20 each to the overall system.  

Since the APRS antenna was designed  only for portable operation, the 
remote control seems a little bit of a luxury when your operations will 
usually be done from the parking lot anyway.  But remembering how cold 
the parking lot at an AMSAT convention in Maine can be, I decided the
added cost of the screwdrivers was small compared to the creature
comforts of working AO-40 from the hotel lobby instead of the freezing
termperatures outside.  Also the screwdrivers help with ballast to 
balance the antenna, and since the extra weight is required anyway, it
may as well be functional.

One advantage of the S-Band downconverter at the antenna is that the
coax run can be over 100 feet of commmon RG-59 coax cable.  This is why
it seems very practical to add the remote motor control for convenient
operation indoors.  To date, I have not focused too much on the uplink
since there is nothing unique about transmitting on UHF.  But I hope to
make a 6 element UHF addition to the feed system so that the dish can
be used as a reflector as well.

ASSEMBLY:  

Extreme care should be taken to align parts in exactly 90 or 45 degree
angles true to each other.  If you follow these steps in sequence, the
mounting system should go together quite well.  If anything has to be
forced, you can re-heat some solder joints to relieve stress.

Initial Assembly Preparations:  First solder all parts that need no
mutual alignmnet into fixed solid Pieces as follows:

 1) Solder the N1, N2 and N3 parts into the North Yoke Piece
 2) Solder the B3, B4, B5, B6 and B7 pieces into the Base Unit Piece
 3) Solder the S1, S2, S3 south leg Piece
 4) Solder the S4, S5, S6 Polar Axle Piece
 5) Solder the S7, S8, S9 center brace Piece
 6) Solder the P6 and P7 side bracket Pieces

Unit Alignment Assembly:  Assemble the pieces temporarily using tape at
all removable junctions so that final alignment can be obtained prior
to final soldering of the N5 and N6 street elbows and drilling of pilot
holes for all assembly clips.

 1) Add the N4 pipes to the North Yoke Piece and tape in place.
 2) Add the N5 elbows in the same plane as the N4 pipes.
 2) Add the N6 elbows not in yoke plane, but in the vertical plane.
 3) Add and tape the two N7 "T"'s and N8 cross pipe to each other
 4) Add the two B1 vertical "T"'s and tape to the two B2 pipes
 5) Tape the two B2 pipes to the Base Unit Piece.
 6) Add and tape the south Leg Piece
 7) Add and tape the Center Brace Piece
 8) Add and tape the Polar Axle Piece to complete the structure.
 9) Now solder the N4, N5 and N6 pieces together into two diagonal pieces.
 10) Now solder the two N7 and two B1 "T"'s into two leg pieces.

Parts list:
-----------

North Yoke: 
 N1 - 5.75" Cu pipe
 N2 - "T"
 N3 - Two 45 degree street elbows
 N4 - two 18" Cu pipes
 N5 - two 45 degree street elbows
 N6 - two 45 degree street elbows
 N7 - Two Cu "T"'s
 N8 - 27.5" Cu cross pipe

Base Yoke:
 B1 - Two Cu "T"'s
 B2 - Two 18" Cu pipes
 B3 - Two 45 degree street elbows
 B4 - Cu "T"
 B5 - 1" splice piece
 B6 - Vertical "T"
 B7 - 12.5" Cu south brace

South Leg:
 S1 - Cu "T"
 S2 - 4" Vertical pipe
 S3 - 45 degree elbow
 S4 - 12" Cu Polar pipe
 S5 - "T"
 S6 - 6" Cu polar bearing pipe
 S7 - 5.25" Angle center brace
 S8 - 45 degree elbow
 S9 - 8" Vertical brace

Polar Bearing Structure:
 P1 - Bearing "T"
 P2 - 1.5" bearing extension pipe
 P3 - Bearing cross "T"
 P4 - two 1" splice pieces
 P5 - two bracket "T"'s cut 1/8th inch short on top end
 P6 - two 90 degree street elbows cut 1/8th inch short
 P7 - two 7.5" side brackets
 P8 - 3 hole cast aluminum conduit box

Declination Mount
 D1 - 6" strap hinge
 D2 - 1/2" conduit set screw connector
 D3 - hand made nut holder
 D4 - 4" threaded 1/4" x 20 bolt
 D5 - Spring
 D6 - Declination hand crank piece
 D7 - Hand crank nut
 D8 - Hand crank bolt 2.5 inch 1/4" x 20 bolt and nut

Dish Panels

These are formed from a thin piece of Aluminum into panels that
are 24" long and taper on the sides.  I hope to be able to make
these available from a local sheet metal bender...

de WB4APR, Bob