RAFT PRE-SEPARATION CHARGING SAFETY ANALYSIS                          9 Feb 2006
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The RAFT picosat separation switches are in the main battery-to-load circuit but 
they do not disconnect the solar panels from the system bus.  In normal 
configuration, the alternate battery pack is wired to trickle charge from the 
bus.  This configuration poses a pre-separation charging hazard to address.  

HAZARD #1:  The maximum possible Solar Power current in full sun on three solar 
panels, is 290 mA of which 60 mA is a constant load of the receiver.  This 
leaves 230 mA available for inadvertant charging.  This is about 0.2C or about 
twice the trickle charge rate of the 1100 mAH NiCd battery system.  However, 
while the picosats are in the launcher potential charging currents are 
drastically reduced.

CONDITIONS:  The Picosats are only handled and procesed indoors.  Exposure to 
full sun during processing would be extremely rare and is easily avoided.  After 
being integrated with the SSPL Launcher, they are totally enclosed and can only 
be exposed to full sun via light leaks in the deployer top and sides.  The top 
has  a 1? finger hole in it and one side has an access panel with 120 ¬? holes 
in it.  This represents about 7 square inches of light leakage.

MITIGATION:
1)  The sun cannot be orthogonal to both the side and the top at the same time.  
This reduces the possible exposure from 7 down to about 6 sq in.

2)  The solar panels are series strings of 18 cells each and the current from a 
solar panel is limited by its weakest cells.  In this case, more than 90% of all 
cells remain in the dark, so the spotty light can not possibly produce rated 
current.

3)  The holes in the access panels fall equally half on one picosat and half on 
the other.  This reduces the effective area to only 3 sq in per picosat.

CHARGING EFFECT:  The potential charging current then is only 3 sq in compared 
to the on-orbit value of about 50 sq in (the Cosine(Theta) equivalent of corner 
illumination of three 25 sq in panels.  This is 3/50 times 230 mA or about 15 
mA.  Since the nominal 10 hour trickle charge capacity for these cells is 110 mA 
and the safe "float" rating is about 1/3rd of that (35 mA), then this 15 mA can 
be maintained indefinitely with no damage, nor overheating of the cells.  This 
15 mA would produce no more than about 0.12 Watts of waste heat.

This 0.12 Watts of waste heat is insignificant relative to the same heat gain 
the launcher top  would receive from the Sun.  Assuming a conservative 
absorptivity of 0.3, the solar heat gain of the launcher lid under the same sun 
conditions would be about 5 Watts.  Thus the heat dissipated in the batteries 
due to inadvertant charging is less than 3% of the heat transfer and is 
insignificant.

HAZARD #2:  Battery B2 is trickle charged from the main bus during all non-
transmitting conditions (96% of the time).  It has one cell less than the main 
battery.  To prevent abnormal circulating battery-to-battery currents in the 
case of a failed (shorted) cell in B2, a dual fault tolerant design is used 
consisting of the following features:

  1) The voltage drop of the missing cell is made up by the sum of the voltage 
drops across a diode (0.7) and transistor Q1 (0.7).  So under normal conditions 
there is no energy transfer from B1 to B2.  When the solar bus (or B1) is above 
7.2 volts nominal (1.2v per cell) charge current will flow into B2 as set by the 
forward bias of Q1 which is set to approximately 110 mA (the safe continuous 
trickle charge rate for B2).

  2) Under the condition of a failed cell in B2, there are multiple current 
limiting protection mechanisms:
  
  A. The current is limited by Q1 to 110 mA (0.1C trickle charge rate)
  B. The current is limited by PTC fuse to 250 mA  (0.23C rate)
  C. The solar panel system is current whole orbit limited to 120 mA avg

3. Peak power dissipation under these overcharge conditions of 0.23C capacity is 
2 Watts, but the B2 battery pack is thermally conductive to the overalls 
paceframe which is already under a nominal solar flux dissipation condition of 
22 Watts to the blackness of space.  The additional 2 Watts of excess 
dissipation under fault conditions could only raise the temperature of the 
spacecraft about 2% (or about 6 degrees C).  Even if the thermal resistance from 
B2 to the spaceframe is poor, say 50% then any temperature rise in the B2 cells 
due to a shorted cell is insignificant to the normal temperature fluctuations 
(+/- 10C) expected per orbit.  The nominal spacecraft temperature is between 0 
to +20C

CONCLUSIONS:  The charge current resulting form solar energy leakage onto the 
solar arrays while in the launcher and in the Payload Bay is about 1/3rd of the 
safe, indefinite float rating of the cells.  Further this 15 mA would produce no 
more than about 0.12 Watts of waste heat which is insignificant to the solar 
heat gain the launcher top  would receive from the Sun.  

Bob Bruninga
US Naval Academy Satellite Lab
410-293-6417


