PCsat SUMMARY

PCsat:  PCsat is a student satellite project to give students hands-on 
practical experience in the design of spacecraft.  It has been worked on 
by students over the last several years:

1997 Midn 1/c Goodhiew                    
1998 Midn 1/c Morgan
1999 Midn Erik Theodore Lundberg     
     Midn Brian Everett Scrabeck 
     Midn Carlos Eduardo Gomez 
     Midn Lester Michael Melanson III 
     Midn John Anton Kollar IV 
     Midn Travis Anthony Mattera 
     Midn George Apolonio Najar Ortiz Jr 
     Midn David James Burroughs 
2000 Midn Robert Bradford Schwenzer
     Midn Laura Elizabeth Nolan 
     Midn Steven Charles Lawrence 
     Midn Daniel Antoine Boutros 
2001 Midn Daniel Sullivan
     Midn Alex Gutweiler
Faculty and Staff:
     Assoc Prof Daryl G Boden 
     LtCol USAF Billy R Smith 
     Bob Bruninga (WB4APR)
     
MISSION:  The Mission of PCsat is to serve as a worldwide position/status
reporting and message communications satellite for remote travelers using 
only Handheld or Mobile radios with Omni-directional whip antennas.  It uses
the APRS (Automatic Position Reporting System) protocols to permit hundreds
of users per pass to access the satellite.  To demonstrate this concept, 
PCsat will augment the existing worldwide terrestrial Amateur Radio APRS 
tracking system by providing links from the 90% of the earths surface not 
covered by the terrestrial network.  It will be licensed as an Amateur
Satellite in the Amateur Satellite Service.

BACKGROUND:  Today, 95% of the US amateur population is covered by the 
terrestrial APRS network, BUT only 30% of the surface area of the USA is, 
or will probably ever be, covered.  Similarly in just the last year we have
seen explosive growth in the European theater as well.  But, distant travelers,
boats at sea, and stations in the rest of the world are presently unable to
use the APRS system as a travelers safety reporting system when on distant
trips.  An APRS payload on one or more satellites would make such reporting
possible throughout the world.  PCsat will be a proof of concept for
this mission.  Credibility to the popularity of this mode is demonstrated
by the recent decision of the South African SUNSAT team to re-write their
flight software to user their SUNSAT satellite to also provide APRS type
satellite service.


FREQUENCY CONSIDERATIONS:  Two meters is the ideal band for this mission due to
the requirement for user access using only a handheld radio.  Two meters
offers a 9 dB link advantage over UHF.  To take advantage of this advantage,
the HANDHELD uplinks will be on two meters and the downlink will also be on 
2 meters.  This assures the best reception by mobiles and handhelds both with 
only omnidirectional antennas.  Higher power mobiles who have 10 dB greater
uplink power will use UHF.  This splits the contention on the uplink channels
and doubles overall throughput.  Two downlink frequencies are required:

DOWNLINKS:
VHF-A  should be in the Satellite Subband for operation worldwide
VHF-B  can operate on 144.39 over the North American continent.

UPLINKS:
VHF-A  is for handhelds and low power (5w) stations everywhere
VHF-C  is for special events/applications/and comand/control
UHF-A  is for 50 watt mobiles everywhere
UHF-B  is for command/control

UNIVERSAL CONTINENT PAGING:  Since ALL terrestrial APRS users monitor the 
North American Continent frequency of 144.39 and this frequency is coordinated
by all coordinated bodies, there is an additional capability that can be performed
by an APRS satelite.  It can be used to send urgent messages to ANYONE.  SUch
use will be minimized to only priority applications since it does add a burden to
the terrestrial network everywhwere.

INTERNET LINKED GROUND STATIONS:  APRS is unique in the way it combines all
packets heard everywhere in the world into a single common internet feed 
channel.  THus the infrastructure for distributing APRS traffic no
matter where its source into all other stations already exists.  So all
we need is a few PCsat donwlink stations to feed in the packets heard
from space.  

Even on the 144.39 downlink, this is not a problem!
To any single ground station receiver, the channel is still 70% vacant.
(The Optimum Aloha TDMA channel operates at less than 20% occupancy).
Since only a few ground stations are needed to link the PCsat downlink
into the internet, any local instantaneous QRM at one receive site would
not be present at all others simultaneouslly.  Thus with only 5 PCsat
downlinks sites all feeding the APRServe internet system and experiencing
say 30% channel QRM in their area, still gives a  0.3 to the 5th power
chance of a lost packet.  Or better than 99.8% probabiliy of SUCCESSFUL
receipt!  Thus 144.39 is a GOOD downlink in the USA and there are no
frequency coordination issues.

WB4APR, Bob