DTMF-Paging <=> APRS Gateway Spec                         12 Feb 09
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The conversion between APRS and DTMF-Paging formats are discussed 
in this document.  Even in 2007 there are probably as many DTMF
text paging radios as there are APRS display radios.  Hence the 
need for a common translation between the two.

In the late 1990's there were tens of thousands of FT-51 and TH-78 
DTMF paging radios which can send and receive text messages
using DTMF.  Although text messages were usualy constrained to
6 or 12 byte strings, they can be combined together to the full
message memory which is ten such sextets or 60 characters.

There are several major categories of applications:

1) Two way text and data exchange between these radios
2) Displaying local APRS data ON these radios
3) Sending APRS type data from these radios
4) Using *ANY* HT to send DTMF data to these radios or Net control
   
Generally these operations take place on a separate simplex channel
than the APRS traffic.  The radio is set to receive-paging mode, 
and it will monitor and display any APRS traffic converted to DTMF,
or any DTMF data from other radios.  THe radio can also send DTMF
data that is converted back to APRS and placed on the APRS channel.

Operating scenario 4 has the largest potential since it will let 
ALL amateur radio operators at an event use ANY of their existing 
HT's with a DTMF pad to send in data to net control.  For 
applications, please see www.aprs.org/messages/DTMF2net.txt

This spec defines the DTMF-Paging-to-APRS translation between the 
APRS side or the gateway and the DTMF side.  This system is a
subset of the overarching APRStt (touchtone) which can apply to
all DTMF radios but uses voice synthesis for the return path to
the user.  See www.aprs.org/aprstt.html

MESSAGE RECEPTION:  The special DTMF radio must be in Message 
Paging Receive mode.  The display consists of three parts:

XXXXX YYYYY
Z Z Z Z Z Z

Where XXXX and YYYY are the usual dual band frequency displays
and Z Z Z Z Z Z is a larger font 6 character message window.
When a page or text message is received, the frequency field
say, XXXX, changes to display the SENDING station's 3 digit 
paging address or group code and memory number and the ZZZZZZ 
window displays any text. 

Although multiple incoming messages will fill any available 
message memory sextets, the sending station ID is lost in the
additional memories, so it is best to keep all data to a single
6 byte window where possible.  Obviously, Messages are expected
to use as many of these memories as needed.  But first it is
important to understnd how these message memories are handled:

If the 10 message sextets are full then there are two options: 
1) additional incoming messages are ingored. 
2) incoming messages are overwritten into memory #0 (default).

ADDRESSING:   The paging and messaging system uses 3 digit addresses
for both individual messages and group calls.  For APRS we will
define the individual callsign addresses as simply the numeric
equivalent of the amateur call's suffix.  APR for example is 277.
Then we have defined several group codes 990 to 999 for the several
types of APRS traffic.  This way, receipients can select or opt-out 
of certain data types. The header for a page or text message contains
the GROUP number, GGG and the Senders Callsign ID, CCC like this:

GGG*CCC

MESSAGE TYPE:  The radios can monitor for up to 6 group codes and so
the following assignments have been made for the several data types
that everyone might want to receive:

  999 can mean STATUS data (or any free text)
  998 can mean FIXED position data
  997 can mean MOVING vehicles
  996 can mean WX data
  995 can mean DIGIpeater data
  994 can mean MESSAGES
  993 can mean satellites-in-view
  xxx are individual messages from xxx

The Radio operator enters all of these GROUP codes into his paging
memory so that he can receive these data.  Or he can selectively
eliminate some types of data by omitting the 3 digit group code.

ON-AIR-FORMAT:   The on air format for these messages are:

GGG*CCC     - which opens the Paging squelch.
#MMMMMMMMM# - which is the message function up to 6 bytes.
#mmmmmmmmm# - or additional message lines up to 10 lines.

These messages may be manually stored in ANY DTMF radio  and can be
used to manually send messages to the FT51/TH78 series radios.  This
method can be very powerful for remote data entry at amateur radio
field events.  Please see www.aprs.org/aprsevent.html

DTMF PAGING RADIO SETUP: 

Each FT51/TH78 has to be set up for DTMF paging and messaging.
This involves setting the USER's digital ID, which for this appliaction
should be the numeric equivalend of his three letter callsign suffix.
For example, WB4APR has the suffix of APR which is 277 on a DTMF pad.
Next, the user must store the above 3 digit APRS group ID's that
he wants to receive.  Then he must enable TEXT PAGING which squelches
the radio on that channel so that it will only respond to PAGING.

APRS-to-DTMF FORMATS:

This process is the conversion from normal local APRS traffic into a
DTMF equivalent

CALLSIGNS:  First the callsign is converted to 6 bytes.  This provides
the DTMF user the ability to see the full callsign of the station and
be able to match it to the CCC numeric equivalent ID.

   CCCCCC is used if no SSID is present
   CCCCCS is used for 5 byte calls with one digit SSID's
   CCCCSS is used for 4 byte calls with two digit SSID's
   CCCCSS is used for all other calls with PREFIX dropped to fit.

POSITION:  The position data is converted to a BEARING and RANGE from
the DTMF/APRS gateway location.  The BEARING is converted to angles-of-
the-clock which gives 30 degree resolution.  This uses the digits 0-9 
and then T,E,V for Ten, Eleven and twelVe o'clock directions.  The 
distance is expressed in two digits of MILES or Kilopmeters according 
to local usage.  The resulting 3 digit POSITION field is labled as
CMM for "Clock bearing and 2 digits of miles".

FREQUENCY:  If a FFF.FFFMhz frequency string is present, then it is 
converted to 6 bytes FFFFFF.

HEADING/SPEED:  Two bytes are used. HS where Heading is N,S,E,W and
speed is in 10's of MPH or KPH.  Example, 60 MPH is "6".

MESSAGES:  Any Messages heard on the APRS channel directed to any 
station with the suffix of XYZ will be sent as a page on the DTMF 
paging channel to the paging address of ### which is the DTMF hash 
of the XYZ callsign suffix.  The DTMF Gateway further encodes the
APRS sender's call into its comparable 3 digit DTMF number ###.
On receipt, the message lines will appear as being from station ###.  
For now, the DTMF gateway does not store nor prepare a traffic list 
for future replay.  Instead, for now, it simply repeats the message 
each time the APRS packet is seen. 

ANYWAY I will work very closely with any volunteer to finalize the 
details of this spec for optimum compatibility with existing and 
future APRS. 


Bob, WB4APR 

