DTMF Text Messaging to Net Control with ANY amateur HT    12 Fed 2009
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               WB4APR

This file addresses the use of a single DTMF Text Messaging radio as
a display in front of the Net=Control or EOC operator so that he can
be text-messaged or receive short numeric data from ANY HT in use by 
an amateur radio operator in the field using his own simple existing
HT as long as it has a DTMF keypad.  (almost all radios do).

Here is a very fundamental and simple application of this capability 
at a huge marathon for example.  We all know the congestion on the 
main voice net and how inefficient it is to pass traffic by first  
having to get the attention of Net Control, be acknowledged, and 
then allowed to pass the traffic.

Imagine this scenario

1)  Every HT at the event is asked to pre-program these sequences 
into his DTMF autodial memory:  

mem 0 - 999*abc#
mem 1 - 999*abc#ABC 1#
mem 2 - 999*abc#ABC 2#
mem 3 - 999*abc#ABC 3#

Where 999 is the group code for these text messages
Where abc is the numeric text equivalent of the station's suffix
Where ABC is the spelled out TEXT of the stations suffix
What will appear on the front panel of the Net Control Op is

2) Anyone in the field that has Any traffic for the net simply presses 
his appropriate DTMF memory button (on a separate dedicated FREQ) and 
instantly, his request, his CALL ID and his urgency of traffic are 
right there up-front in front of the net control.

3) Net control has one of these FT51/TH78's in front of his 
operating position.  Where he is a busy person handling traffic...
Here is what he will see on the front panel of his rado.

+-----------+
|abc 146.940|  where "abc" is the number ID equivalent of "ABC"
+-----------+
| A B C   1 |  where "A B C" is the SUFFIX of the requesting stn
+-----------+

Meaning that station with suffix "ABC" has an emergency message.
Memory 0 is used as a prefix and then the user can type in any
6 letter free-text in real time followed by a #.

4) Net control then knows who to call next.  Very efficient.  The 
ultimate in a DIRECTED net!

The 999 is the group call for this function.  The ABC is the users 
numeric suffix callsign ID (APR for example is 277) and the 1, 2, or
3 indicate the urgency IE, Emergency, Priority, Routine.

Some people would complain of the complexity, but then only because 
some hams refuse to ever do or learn anything new.  But you can see 
that the process is very simple and  most people can pick it up in 
an instant.  And all of the tedious data entry can be done in advance.
Of course the ideal radio for this application is a dual band.  Then 
you can send in yoour check-in-with-traffic without leaving the net 
frequency.

Cross band is recommended so that the NET control can see the 
incoming traffic while he is transmitting on the voice net.

Practice at your club, and it could really work well.

Bob, Wb4APR
