Clingamn's Dome - 2013                                       22 July 2013
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Well, just got in from Clingman's Dome, and we definitely had a "weather 
event" at Clingman's Dome. Around 2:15PM (EDT), we got hit with thunder, 
lightning, and a downpour that didn't show any signs of letting up.  
I barely got the antenna on the push-up mast down before the downpour 
started and got a good soaking anyway.

Tried to operate after that with a vertical on the car roof and could 
still work Roan Mtn. and Lookout Mtn. on voice, and Roan Mtn. on APRS.

We never received any packets from Springer Mtn. (I understand that 
operator diverted to Ft. Mountain due to heavy TS activity in the 
Springer area), nor could we establish voice contact.
 
An interesting experiment, nonetheless, and I can see some things 
I'll do differently next year if I get a chance to participate.

Larry J. Ford
KG4GPJ

JMG:

I just posted the log file from the Clingman's Dome monitoring station 
(TH-D7 with mag-mount).  It covers the period from 1200-1415.  We were 
actually on the air by 1100.

The main station was Larry's TM-D700 using a vertical omni on an 18' mast.  
We had good voice contact with ROAN using 10W on the main station.  

We were hearing packets from 3, 4, & 5 the entire time we were operational.

Never heard Springer directly but received a packet from Springer via Lookout.

Received a packet from Camelback near the end but I think the hop count was off.
Received it from Roan with a path of HOP7-2 but was expecting to see HOP7-1.

We never saw anything from 6, 7, or 8.


Larry Ford:

I'm sure the folks on the peaks with high RF environments need filters, but 
that's not the case on Clingman's Dome, which is high enough (6600 feet MSL
+-) and isolated enough (in the middle of the Great Smoky Mountains 
+National Park), there's no other RF up there - no electricity either!

We had good comms on UHF to Roan Mtn. (89 miles) and Lookout Mtn (80+ miles). 
Both Roan and Lookout could copy our station on UHF on 10 watts (dropped 
power down on UHF to conserve battery capacity).

However, as reported before, we never heard a peep out of Springer (which 
supposedly diverted to Fort Mountain, GA, due to TS in and around Springer) 
on APRS or UHF.  However, the alternate station on Lookout Mtn. did report 
at one time seeing a packet TX and may have had a brief UHF comm as well.  
Lookout Mtn. reported that Springer/Fort Mountain was using a handheld.  
Don't know what kind of antenna he was using, or what his actual power output 
was, but for the leg between Springer and Clingman's Dome, I would suggest 
that 5 watts won't do the job unless conditions are near perfect and a good 
gain antenna is used.


Larry J. Ford
KG4GPJ
Clingman-2
  

P.S. regarding ...
----------------------

Zach, Good job at Comer's Rock.  I was at Clingman's Dome and your station 
was one of the 3 we were receiving early and continuously.

With regard to logging, one bad thing about the D700 is that when you put 
it into APRS mode you no longer receive the monitor packets that you do 
when in packet mode.  You would have to operate in packet mode with an APRS 
client on your laptop, or manually beacon from a terminal program.

What I was thinking of doing next year was to use an external TNC on the 
D700 mini-DIN.  I have a tracker2 with an SD logger mounted inside on the 
TTL side of the RS232 converter.  That way I can take advantage of the main 
station antenna and not have to install a second one.
I can also use the D700 in APRS mode and will not need a computer.

For logging this year I used an SD-logger and RS232 converter mounted to 
the back of a AA battery pack connected to my D7 operating in packet mode.  
The bad thing about the D7 is that it doen't have an internal clock so you 
don't get timestamps on the packets.  I need to work on that for next year.

Sparkfun Electronics sells a micro-SD logger and Seeedstudio sells a SD logger.  
I have used both and they work well.  

Mike George
N3MUY




