APRS Simulated Emergency Test Procedures                    24 Aug 09
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The September 2009 QST mentions the October Simulated Emergency Test
and an indepth article on how APRS can be the foundation for a
Universal Amateur Radio Text Messaging System.

We need a standardized plan on how to exercise APRS during the SET!  

This is a first draft, since I do not consider myself an fully trained
ARES/RACES/RED CROSS/FEMA person.  My thoughts are that it might 
include these elements:

EOC:  

A) Sends an exercise Bulletin once every 10 minutes or so.
B) Maintains a Frequency object with the local NET check-in freq.
C) Solicits checkins via A and B
D) Demonstrates APRS display at ALL EOC consoles
E) Demonstrates large screen display of fll tactical situation 

MOBILES:  

1) Observe above on their Mobile APRS radios or display screens.  
2) Be sure their GPS's are enabled and the EOC can track them
3) Put their Frequency in their position text so they can be called
4) Send a "CKIN" message to the EOC showing they have received A/B

FIXED STATIONS:  The job of fixed stations is to be OBJECT INPUTTERS.
They act as back-room facilitators that listen to all voice nets and
place objects on the APRS map to represent everything in the situation.

a) Confirm receipt of A and B
b) Send CKIN message
c) Monitor all Voice traffic and input OBJECTS to represent tactical
   assets important to the present situation FOR ALL TO SEE.  
d) This includes keeping track of the location of all other non-APRS 
   mobiles.  Divide up this task among the operators so each can 
   concentrate on subsets of the reqired objects.  This division of 
   labor is important if UI-view is used, to spread out the channel 
   load since UI-view has no mechanism for giving priority to new 
   objects and less channel load to old objects.  

CHALLENGE:  The goal of the APRS part of the exercise is to make sure 
that the EOC personnel can communicate to all moving and active APRS 
mobiles via above processes And can see the entire tactical situation 
of everything involved.  Figure of merit is how many APRS mobiles 
checkin and how many trackers the EOC is able to make contact with 
and how well you can maintain the tactical picture.

Is there anything else that would be a good part of this exercise?

Bob, WB4APR

