ROAN Report - 2013                                           22 July 2013
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Operators: K4KWL Dave and N4AZR Glenn

Photos of the setup are uploaded in the Photos area of the Yahoo Group.

Upon setup around 11am we were immediately able to hear Clingman's Dome 
and Comers Rock on both APRS and on Voice.  Comers Rock was a very strong 
signal and Clingmans was a bit weaker but was very readable.

Primary Radio (ROAN-3) was: TM-D710 running on a 9ah sealed lead acid 
battery with a Diamond x50 antenna on a telescoping mast around 
36 feet high.  This radio was set on high power the whole time and 
did not deplete the battery throughout the event.

Secondary Radio (ROAN) was: a Yaesu radio attached to a netbook running 
Linux and Xastir, Antenna was a Diamond x30 at 15-20 feet.  This was 
very valuable because we were able to see all of the stations as they 
came online and were able to see all of the packets digipeated, etc.  
N4AZR Glenn ran this station and had previous experience at Roan as 
well as Comers Rock.

Aux Radio was: a TH-D72 with a slim jim antenna. We were on 144.39 and 
were unable to establish 2-way communication with the ANSRVR. After the 
event we discovered that our packets were in fact getting out but we 
just weren't getting anything back.  There was a lot of traffic on 
144.39 up there so not totally surprising.  We were able to talk with 
Comers Rock on voice but were not able to reach Clingman's Dome with the HT.

Operating Position:  We set up in the parking lot up toward the former 
location of the Cloudland Hotel and adjacent to the restrooms. Since 
we didn't have any shelter to speak of, this came in handy when it 
started raining.  We were able to put the radios inside our vehicles 
and continue to operate.

Cell Coverage: For all intents and purposes there was no cell coverage 
on AT&T, Verizon, or Sprint.  N4AZR Glenn was able to get some occasional 
data coverage on the Sprint network but nothing dependable or lasting 
longer than a minute or two.

Local Repeater:  We were able to get into the Mt. Mitchell 145.19 repeater 
with no problem from Roan Mountain and much of the journey in from the 
NC side. We were also able to get into several D-Star repeaters from our 
position with just an HT.  We didn't try anything with EchoLink.

Weather: Dense fog for the most part with occasional clearing and short 
periods of light to moderate rain throughout the test.  (somehow K4KWL 
managed to get a sunburn despite N4AZR warning us about the damaging effects 
of the sun and offering to share his sunscreen on at least three occasions)

Overall we had a great time participating in the test. It was great to get 
out of the shack and set up a portable station and hear others on the air 
doing the same.  Many thanks to Glenn N4AZR for his kindness and taking 
time to time to teach me things during the event.  His knowledge and 
experience were invaluable.  We look forward to getting back out to 
Roan next year!

