AT Golden Packet 2009 Quick Summary                    27 July 09
-----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           WB4APR

Here is my quick summary for everyone...  It will take me a while 
to put it all together.  If you have better one-line wording for 
this summary, lemme know.

Katahdin     - no station
Maine Relay  - not heard at Greylock? (switchover of KQ1L-6?)
MtWashington - OK But isolated!
NewHempshire - Radio crashed the night before... Poor guy...
Greylock     - OK Heard maybe to MD mountains? (confirm?)
Sams-pointNY - no station
Camelback PA - OK Heard WV to Greylock, tho Glk vy rare
G.D. Hill    - OK Heard WV to Greylock, tho Glk vy rare
MD Mountains - OK Heard WV to Greylock, tho Glk vy rare
WV Mountains - OK Heard WV to Greylock, tho Glk vy rare
AppleOrchard - Not heard. Though 146.685 rptr heard 100%
Comers Rock  - Pouring rain and did not get to top site
Roan Mountn  - OK heard to Huntsville
Clingmans    - OK.Heard Roan to Huntsville
Springer Mn  - OK Heard Roan to Huntsville (no digi)
Lookout Mtn  - OK Heard Roan to Huntsville direct to Clingmans
Huntsville   - OK Heard Roan to Huntsville via Lookout
 
Questions:  

1) Did Mt Wash hear anything at all from anyone?
2) How did the Echolink Conference go? (I was too late)

Here are the FACTS I need from each site in summary form.
Especially the readings on their LCD meter on the D700 of their
neighbors.  We can correlate that exactly to signal strength.
Here is my report.  Using this format we can quickly assess
everything we need to know

GDHILL:   D700 TX on Medium power packet and UHF:
Antenna:  single dual band vertical (3 dBi and 4.5 dBi)
Schedule: DIGI on Air on battery about 12:30?  
          No PC power until 3 PM. Quit at 4PM.
Echolink: net not joined because we were too late.

RX SW to MD Mtns all 9 bars packet
RX SW to MD Mtns all 9 bars on 445.925 voice
RX NE to Cmlbck only 3 bars (but reliable)
RX NE to CmlBck only 1 bar on 445.925 voice (needed HPwr)

I was also using 445.925 for my own site simplex, as we spent 2
hours lugging stuff and pulling 3200' of wire up and down the
hill.  Probably drove my adjacent sites nuts...  Though with the
lack of long-haul packet traffic, at least maybe it gave them
some entertainment...

Echolink?  I think this is an area where we can all learn a lot.
This is a great system for long distance coordination, but I
admit, I have never used it from the mobile either, and so we
have a lot to learn.  I was unable to find a guru to write up a
good plan for us so most of us were working in the dark.  But
getting those ECHOLINK and IRLP Beacons into every digipeater so
we can SEE the OPEN ones while we are mobile, makes it as simple
as 123456 to call  home, and #to finish the QSO.  What could be
a greater asset to the mobile operator!

I have no info on the Echolink 11 to 12 test, since we had not
even started climbing the mountain until after it was over.

This was a great first year.  We will definitely plan for this
next year along with trying to get other long haul trails
interested.  At Field Day, we don't get no respect, never have
in 20 years.  Im tired of that.  Lets make this a great annual
event for VHF and Packet!

I will make a more formal report, and Update ALL web pages with
what you send me, but it will take a lot of time.  Also will get
an article into QST.

This Email LIST used on this particular message has more names
added to it, so this is the one with everyone on it, I think.

Bob, Wb4APR
