AT Golden Packet 2010 Quick Summary                    26 July 10
-----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           WB4APR

Here is my quick summary for everyone.  Looks like fewer stations
were attempted this year, even though QST article on p99 of July
2010 issue gave good exposure. Success from Springer Mountain in 
GA up through TN and NC. Again, Comer's Rock in SW VA was not 
manned. But from Roanoke (AO mountain) through White Rock Cliffs, 
Maryland mountains, and GD Hill were all in contact.  Nothing 
heard north of centeral PA however.


Katahdin     - no station
Maine Relay  - no station
MtWashington - no station!
NewHempshire - No station
Greylock     - No station
Sams-pointNY - no report seen yet
Camelback PA - Nothing heard from them
G.D. Hill    - OK Heard down to AO
MD Mountains - OK Heard GD hill down to AO
WV Mountains - OK Heard GD Hill down to AO but his HOPn-N digi NG
AppleOrchard - OK Heard north to GD Hill
Comers Rock  - no station
Roan Mountn  - OK heard south to Springer
Clingmans    - OK.Heard North Roan to SOuth SPringer
Springer Mn  - OK Heard Heard North up to Roan
Lookout Mtn  - no station
Huntsville   - no station

SPRINGER was heard to Roan.  No detail report yet.

CLINGMANS was heard both ways to Springer and Roan.

ROAN was blocked from Public Parking lots at top of mountain because
the park was closed!  SO they had to choose one side of the mountain
or the other.  They were on the COMERS ROCK side but since it was 
unmanned, they were still able to link to Clingmans even though their
line of sight was blocked.  THey operated till 3 PM or so

AO Mountain was the normal 144.39 digi switched over to 144.34 the
week before for the event.  It was heard well at the White-Rock 
Cliffs site on the VA/WV border.

WHITE ROCK CLIFFS was one of the main heafty man-climb stations
again this year and could easily hear AO and MD Mountain plus the
link to GD hill.  They were using a D700 configured 2 years ago
by yours-truely, but for some reason it was not digipeating HOPn-N
packets.  SO the only way through them was to use the actual
callsign WHTRCK-6.  Then it was successful.

GDHILL:   D700 TX on Medium power packet and UHF:
Antenna:  single dual band vertical (3 dBi and 4.5 dBi)
Schedule: DIGI on Air on battery about 12:30?  

RX SW to MD Mtns all 9 bars packet
RX SW to MD Mtns all 9 bars on 445.925 voice
Nothing ever heard from Camelback team or beyond

Echolink?  I did not attempt it this year.  It was added to the
event to test our readiness, but we had enough other problems 
than to add this to the mix...

The stations that were manned this year seemed to be better 
prepared and more efficiently operated.  We will definitely plan 
for this next year along with trying to get other long haul trails
interested.  At Field Day, we don't get no respect, never have
in 20 years.  Im tired of that.  Lets make this a great annual
event for VHF and Packet!

I will make a more formal report, and Update ALL web pages with
what you send me, but it will take a lot of time.  Also will get
an article into QST.

Everyone should join the at-golden-packet@yahoogroups.com for
the appalachian trail and pct-golden-packet@yahoogroups.com for
those on the west coast.

My main lesson learned in climbing GD hill in 105 degree effective
heat and humidity was to carry ONLY what was needed.  ONLY enough
batteires for the 4 hour event, and ONLY enough water for the team
for 4 hours, not 2 days.  The D700 ran from 1230 to 1600 on medium
power and only used about 2 amp hours of energy.  We carried 52
amp hours of energy up there!

Also PLAN ON RAIN!  We are 2 for 2 so far at our site.

Bob, Wb4APR
