CLINGMAN's DOME 2011 REPORT                               26 July 2011
----------------------------------------------------------------------      
                              William [yahoo-mail@mckeehan.homeip.net]

The event ran smoothly at Clingmans Dome.

John, AJ4HV, and Karen, K4RTW, arrived around 9:30 AM and secured a
parking spot for the truck and camper. (precise location - when you
enter the parking area, it becomes a one-way road and forms a loop. 
We circle around that loop and park near the exit of the parking 
area.)

I arrived around 9:50 and was able to make contact with both Roan 
Mountain and Springer Mountain using my mobile radio on 445.925.

By that time, John and Karen had the operating position inside of the 
camper all setup and they were beginning to set up the mast for the 
antennas.

I delivered two four-element beam antennas that were provided by Hugh, 
W4VAB. We put these on the mast and pushed them up....about 20 feet.

The radio setup was a Kenwood TM-D710 (provided by AJ4HV) running 
stand-alone, but connected to a PC for logging purposes. I used a 
terminal program (PuTTY) connected to the TM-D170 to capture the log:

http://mckeehan.homeip.net/amateurradio/APRS/2011_AT_GP/TMD710.log

By 10:51, all of the setup was complete, and I sent my first message 
to Roan Mountain. It was successful and ack'd.

After things were up and running, we decided to setup a second station
to capture the packets and display things on a map. Unwilling to 
change the setup that we had with the D710, I brought out a netbook 
running AGWPE, APRSIS32 and AGW Monitor and connected it to an HT 
(IC-V8) using a sound-card interface. This worked well to show us 
where things were without changing the digi setup or adding any 
packets to the frequency. The log from AGW Monitor is also available:

http://mckeehan.homeip.net/amateurradio/APRS/2011_AT_GP/agwpelog.txt

The B side of the D710 was used for voice contact on 445.925. I would 
also occasionally walk to my truck to send out updates from CLNGMN on 
144.39 and would sometimes talk to the Roan/Springer from there 
(which makes me wonder if the beam antennas were really necessary).

I did not have good luck with the CQSRVR, although several attempts 
were made.  Turns out I was using the wrong spelling of CQSRVR.

I did not make note of the time, but around 1 I think, we also talked 
with a group that went to Lookout Mountain. They were unable to get 
any packets to transmit, but were able to copy us on both voice and 
APRS.

So all-in-all, it was an easy day for us; Murphy stayed well to our 
north. We did have two or three rain showers pass - one of which was 
heavy (around 3pm), but the camper provided great shelter and we 
operated in comfort.

Thanks to AJ4HV for providing all of the equipment and to W4VAB for 
the antennas.

This was the best year so far, I hope next year we can pull it all 
together.

William
KI4HDU
