Maryland Mountains 2009 Summary                          28 July 09
-------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             WB4APR
Participants:  
   WN3R Dick Hayman provided site, tower, antenna, coax, power
   N3ER Joseph provided setup and D700 radio
   K3PDK Patrick Domack manned it

When K3PDK arrived, N3ER already had everything setup and operating.

I saw several packets from greylock around this time, 11:30 till  
sometime after 12pm. I did see a few more till 4pm, but I think 
maybe only 2 or 3 packets. [Bob notes: Since GD hill was not 
really on-site and digipeating untill maybe 12:30 or later, this
means MD Mountains was hearing from Camelback direct! maybe...]

We had no problems connecting with GD Hill or camelback. Could 
even hear people at GD Hill using ht's as they walked from car to 
site without much of a problem.

Wasn't able to locate WV till around 3pm, lost your instructions 
on setup, finally got it all sorted out and WV came up around 3:30.

Pretty much it was just boring sitting there, didn't have any 
issues on my end.  Took a few min to get setup on echolink 
directly using a computer, and also was monitoring the thurmont 
147.195 T179 repeater using an HT, so that we didn't have an issue 
with packet digipeating.

Also had my laptop connected on 144.39 for aprs traffic and aprs-is.

My only hope for nextime is to use the d700 in packet mode, and let  
the computer do the digipeating, only so that I can record the 
traffic  at the same time from the radio.

or maybe I don't need to? I haven't played around with seeing if 
the radio would digipeat in packet mode instead of aprs mode, I 
guess there is no reason why it shouldn't.

Patrick, K3PDK

[Bob comment:  Yes D700 will do UIFLOOD and UITRACE digipeating
in packet mode as well as APRS mode.  The only difficulty when
running a PC and some client software is making sure you know
what the client software will do to all the D700 TNC settings.
In some cases these software-induced TNC setting are hard to
track down.  

