SAM'S POINT 2011 REPORT                                   26 July 2011
----------------------------------------------------------------------      
                                                    Roger Schultz NJ2R

My son Peter and I hiked in to the north end of Lake Maratanza just 
off Sam's Point Road on the highest spot we could find. Soon after 
the equipment DH-72A and Diamond dual band mobile was set up we saw a 
beacon from W2TTT at High Point. 

We were able to contact them on 445.925 however the intermod from all 
the other communications towers across the road made it pretty much 
unusable for the entire day. I also became concerned because I could 
not raise the Mt Greylock 146.910 repeater either which was easily 
done last weekend. I suspect intermod was also affecting the 2 meter 
link as well as 440. Chris at Greylock and I eventually exchanged a 
few words between intermod blasts but that was sheer luck! As I 
understand it, he could hear me pretty well his direction on 445.925.

Over the course of the next 3 hours we heard:

GDHILL-8
5PTS-8... (the alternate test site for GD hill)
CMLBK-9 KB3EJM KEVIN
W2TTT at High Point, NJ
GRYLCK-11
MTWASH-13

After the configuration change enabling the digipeater at GDHILL-8 
just before 1500 local we then saw:

HWKSBL-6
CMRRCK-4
CLNGMN-2  (this one turns out to be the longest hop of the event)

Weather condx were changing frequently on the mountain and at one 
point the lake disappeared in a cloud!

My sense is that we would have done better with a much better omni, 
a 50 watt radio, and perhaps a different location that is closer to 
the actual AT.

Since High Point is a good drive up location on the AT, I'd like to 
see what the path looks like between Greylock, Bear Mountain, NY, 
High Point, and Camelback though the latter as well as Governor Dick 
Hill are not that close to the AT. Bear Mountain is LOS from High 
Point as I recall and I imagine Greylock is as well. Bear Mountain is 
a drive up site and even if the parking area by the observation tower 
is full a couple paths exist to set up away from the visitors. 
Because Bear Mountain is a state park on the AT, there are no comm. 
sites to create interference.

From this end it was an excellent effort with much success to enjoy, 
lots of work by so many, and both Peter and myself had a great day 
together doing "ham stuff".

Thanks to Bob for all his hard work and to Lynn for his coordination 
and reporting. It was really nice to know what was going on end to 
end!

73, Roger, NJ2R


