Whitetop Mountain:                                          30 Mar 09
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Repeater 443.000 MHz
Position: N36-38.333. W81-36.351  
WhiteTop to Apple Orchard is 130.6 miles.  


(blocked by Rogers??)  Reported by Adam WK4P:

In this area Whitetop is definately your best bet, although Mt. Rogers 
will provide a bit of shadowing to the NE.  You must remember what we 
hear here where we live (3000-3500 ft) is totally different than what 
is heard from 5482 ft, the last parking area on Whitetop.  My 
experience on Whitetop has been in VHF contesting, so I'm not really 
sure about repeaters, but I would assume one wouldn't have a problem 
with Apple Orchard Mtn.
 
Clingman is getting to be a "fur piece" from Whitetop but we 
consistantly work into EM84 (GA) from Whitetop.  Had contacts into 
AL last fall w/o the benefit of enhanced propagation.  Of course we're 
running SSB, 100 watts, and a 13 element yagi.  I would think you'd 
have a good possibility on FM with a vertical, but I sure wouldn't 
guarantee it.
 
If you could use a machine between Clingmans Dome and Whitetop then 
Roan or Mitchell would work great.  You might hit Apple Orchard from 
Roan, but that's an if.  You definately would not get all the valleys 
from there.  But if your goal is simply AO and Clingmans Dome then 
Whitetop or Roan are probably your best bets.
 
On Whitetop we park about 40 vertical feet under the top for our 
contesting operation.  One can park just outside the FAA fence, but 
you don't want to interfere with the goings on inside the facility.  
I have also received some interference from the facility being that 
close to it.  That said you'd want your antenna to be a minimum of 
25 ft. in the air.
 
You might also try contacting Gary, KM4X.  Gary takes care of all 
the equipment on Whitetop, including the 443.000 machine.  He 
probably has more knowledge on Whitetop's promise than anyone, 
especially where FM is concerned.
 
I hope this helps.  If I can be of further assistance let me know.  
I'd be happy to ride up with you for a test if you plan on doing 
that, I'd offer to go up myself but I can't drive.  Let me know what 
you decide and what you find out, as it may help us with our 
contesting from Whitetop.

Adam WK4P...The Power
