MT KATAHDYN REPORT 2016
------------------------------------

Hello Everyone,  Solo this year :(

Day started early, entered the park gate at 06:00

Set off from Katahdin Stream Campground at 07:15AM EST, Summitted about 11:15AM

Immediately made voice contact on 70cm simplex with the SUGARLF-14 team 
(John (WA1LKI) and his partner (sorry, I forgot name and call)

We exchanged 1,200bps packets. All I had was a Yaesu FT1D and Diamond SRH77CA duck.

John contacted Lynn (KJ4ERJ) via cell phone, and confirmed that MTWASH-13 
would not be active (huge link lost).

We exchanged 9,600bps packets an hour later, no problems!.

John and I ragchewed for about an hour as our views this year were amazing! 
We talked about building solar-power/embedded APRS and Packet-related hardware.

Enjoyed listening to my Red Sox play at Yankee Stadium on the FM dial on the 
hike down. Lynn (KJ4ERJ) and I also were exchanging APRS text messages!

I attached a few photos from this trip. Baxter State Park is an amazing, 
rugged place. Any nature lovers in the group, I urge you to experience this place 
before the federal government takes it over as a National Park. It will never 
be the same place if that day comes...

Yes, I'll do it again every single year for sure!

Thanks to all who worked this time around. We need to discuss a backup operator 
plan for the 2017 event. We need to have alternate hams just in case. If both 
can attend, even better!

LATER: 
Hi Lynn (and the Group),

Thanks for being in the shack again this year! Your text messages are always 
welcome! I'm glad we had the APRS exchange, it really shows the power that Bob's 
(WB4APR) creation has on us hams! (Did we talk on .52 once when I was at Table 
Rock in SC (~Summer 2013)?)

If only APRS could store-forward messages... that's something I think we could 
accomplish, but that's another topic all together!

To answer your questions, 1. The summit temp was mild this time, between 60 and 
65 deg F, I enjoyed it without shivering!) 2. There is nothing overly technical 
about the climb on the Hunt Trail. This trail does have quite a few large boulders 
to traverse, but there are steel hand and foot pegs on a few of them to help. 
I have also hiked the Cathedral trail, that one is a little bit technical (still, 
no tools other than rope required) and I experienced vertigo on that trail. :(

The hike down on Hunt is much more intimidating than the way up, especially to 
those with fear of heights. It's a daunting descent in full sunshine, as you see 
the world around you. I attached a video of the "gateway" section. This is your 
view at the top of this bouldering section at about 4,800' ASL. It's amazing. 
(at 0:13, you see a 30' easy drop to that point... then it's 1,500' drop off in 
a quarter mile) 

I posted a video a while ago on Youtube, in the video, I am hiking up the Hunt 
trail and crossing the famous "Knife Edge" with my old Yaesu VX-8R. 

Here is the link: 2012 AT GP KATHDN-15 Station - Katahdin, Knife Edge, APRS, SOTA

73,

Tim
KA1YBS
KATAHDN-15
