ADDITIONS TO STP PAYLOAD REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT FOR PCSAT-FOLLOW-ON
------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Bruninga 16 July 2002

The following items are the suggested additions to the STP Payload 
Requirements Document for ANDE to support the addition of the 
active PCsat telemetry/comm system.  These listed additions only 
represent first order additions and not necessarily second order 
effects that might impact existing wording...

2.1   MISSION OBJECTIVES

2.1.2 Key Mission Objectives
 
      * Secondary objective to extend the PCsat educational
        communications and telemetry mission...

2.2.1 Major Component Descriptions

      MOCK ANDE ACTIVE SPHERE:
      10 kg of primary batteries  (2 kg absolute minimum)
      1 kg telemetry/comm module

2.2.4 Electrical Interfaces

      The telemetry/comm system activation mechanism will consist
      of dual-dual redundant magnetic proximity switches to
      activate the active payload on separation.

2.3.1 Hardware Subsystems

      2.3.1.1  The telemetry/Comm module is a 6"x6"x2" module
               with three external electrical connectors:
               * Antenna coax connector
               * DB-9 Nine pin Battery power connector
               * DB-15 Fifteen pin telemetry connector

      2.3.1.2  Antenna interface circuit board 2"x1"x1" which
               serves as the matching circuit to couple the
               XMTR/RCVR to the split-shell of the sphere.

      2.3.1.3  Battery box of size 6"x6"x6" full of primary
               batteries of type (TBD).

      2.3.1.4  Telemetry sensors and wiring.  There will be
               six sun sensors and six thermisters attached
               to the spaceframe sphere and connected to the
               telemetry module with small wiring.


2.3.2 Software Subsystems.  The telemetry/commmand/control
      and communications subsystem consists of a 68HC11
      commercial grade processor operating from ROM.  On
      every power-up, the processor cold boots and executes 
      from factory defaults.  Any SEU or other anomolies
      that cause abnormal operations will be reset on the
      next 3 minute hardware power cycle.


2.4.1 Operations description
               
      2.4.1  The Telemetry/Command/comm system's primary function is
             to provide a once every 3 minute worldwide telemetry
             and to also support command and communications while
             over a command or user ground station.

      2.4.2  Operations Modes.  The Telemetry/Command/Comm system
             will operate in three modes for telemetry, command and
             control, and user communications support (if available).
            
             2.4.2.1  TELMETRY: Telemetry will consist of a one second
             telemetry burst once every 3 minutes worldwide.  This
             0.5% duty cycle is what minimizes primary power drain.
             All the rest of the time, all electronics including the
             command receiver will be off except for a master 
             hardware timer which only draws microwatts.

             2.4.2.2  COMMAND/CONTROL:  There is a 1 second receive 
             window after each telemety packet, when a command station 
             may send a  wake up command to activate the system and 
             keep it active for 30 seconds after the last command.
             During this time any commanding or high rate telemetry may 
             be enabled.

             2.4.2.3  COMM SUPPORT:  Also during this COMMAND/COMM window,
             the PCsat style active transponder may be enabled to allow
             PCsat style packet relay in support of users and other
             educational or experimental comm needs.

      2.4.3  Mission Profile/Timeline
             
             Activation:  The master hardware timer will be activated by
             dual-dual redundant magnetic proximity switches on the 
             spacecraft held normally OPEN by magnets embedded in the
             CAPE foam system.

             Normal Operations:  Normal telemetry will continue throughout
             the life of the battery system.  Commanding will be performed
             as needed from the primary (USNA) and alternate command sites.
             User Communications may be enabled over the USA, Europe,
             Australia, Japan and possible other countries as power budget
             permits.

      2.4.5  Minimum Mission Success Criteria

             The success criteria for the followon PCsat Telemetry system
             is the receipt of nominal temperature and spin rate data for 
             ANDE for a minimum of one day after separation.


3.2  Power Requirements

     3.2.1   Standby power 0.0 watts
     3.2.1   Normal operations.  
             
             MODE                  POWER   SOURCE  PEAK   DUTYCYCLE
             --------------------- ------  ------- ------ ---------
             Hardware Master Timer .005W   9 Volt  .005W   100% 
             Telemetry             .025W   9 volt  5W      0.5%
             Commanding 5/week     .005W   9 volt  5W      0.1%
             MaxUser Load          .100W   9 volt  5W      2%
             Total Average         .135W   9 volt  5W      2.7%

     3.4.3   Command Requirements
             Other than those necessary to deploy and sepparate ANDE
             there are no shuttle/ISS services required by the payload
             for commanding.  But since the Amateur Radio Packet system
             on the ISS (ARISS)is compatible with the PCsat telemetry
             command and control system on ANDE, it may be used to 
             monitor the telemetry and or give commands after activation..

             3.4.3.1 Command Interface is RF only at 145.825 MHz.
             Protocol is 1200 baud AX.25 AFSK tones on a 3 KHz deviation
             FM carrier.

             3.4.3.2 Command data rate is 1200 baud

             3.4.3.3 The commmand system can support a serial data stream
             and 3 or more optional ON/OFF switch closures.  Applications
             of these switches are TBD.

      3.4.4  Telemetry Requirements use the same RF channel and protocol
             as the command system.  Telemetry is transmitted once every
             3 minutes in a one-second data burst.  This telemetry is
             receivable with any omni antenna ground station within the
             footprint.


3.6  Orientation and Stabilization
   
     Note that the PCsat Command/Control system could be capable of doing
     some minimum torquing if torquing coils are added to the system.


4.4  Electrmagentic Compatibility

     4.4.1 Sensitivity to Radiated emissions.  The PCsat follow-on system
     should not be exposed to RF levels greater than 5 volts per meter
     in the 140 to 150 MHz band or 20 volts per meter elsewhere.

     4.4.2 Sensitivity to Conducted Emissions.  Th ePCsat follow-on system
     should not be exposed to conducted currents between the lower and
     upper hemispheres of greater than 10 amps average or 100 amps peak.

     4.4.3 Sensitivity to magnetic fields.  PCsat follow-on system has 
     no restrictions on magnetc fields.


4.9  Radio Frequency Emissions

     4.9.1 The PCsat follow-on telemetry/command/control system operates
     on only one internationally allocated frequency (used by PCsat)
     of 145.825 MHz.  This frequency is pre-approved by the ITU for
     amateur satellite operations.  

     4.9.2 Transmit power is 5 watts with a field strength of 32 volts 
     per meter.

     4.9.3 Operations are dual-dual inhibited while PCsat is captive
     within the CAPE system.  The first one second transmission will
     occur within 5 seconds of separation.


7.   GROUND OPERATIONS SUPPORT

     7.3  Experiment Ground Support Equipment.  During all test and
     integration phases, the PCsat follow-on telemetry/command and
     communications system may be supported by a single suitcase
     portable command system and laptop PC.

     7.5  Ground Support Facilities.  The US Naval Academy Satellite 
     Ground station will be the primary command and telemetry station.  
     Additional telemetry ground station receivers are currently
     active in several countries providing live downlink data via
     the internet.  As a follow-on PCsat style teleletry system, these
     stations are in place and will remain active and continue to 
     provide worldwide telemetry data.

     Additionally, Amateur Satellite Users worldwide will be able to use the
     bent-pipe AX.25 transponder when power budget permits.  Such users
     and ground support equipment are in place.

