Proposed APRS OPS Modes for the ECHO Satellite             18 Oct 2003
----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                WB4APR

ECHO will launch this year and carry a tremendous capability and
flexibility for communications experiments in the Amateur Satellite
Service.  With multiple user receivers and 3 downlink transmitters 
almost any communications mode can be supported.  The problem is, how 
to share the numerous modes and configuration possibilities so that 
most of the thousands of potential users are generally satisfied.  
Having too many conflicting modes, and complex operating schedules 
actually detracts from the optimum satisfaction by the general cross-
section of users.

This paper has no official basis with AMSAT nor the ECHO design team 
and is offered only as a draft-strawman to serve as a target for 
discussion by the AMSAT community as to how it will operate AMSAT ECHO.  
There are three primary recommendations:

1) AMSAT should designate an ECHO Operations Committee who will manage 
the day-to-day operation of the spacecraft to best serve users.

2) AMSAT should publish a clear USER SERVICE AGREEMENT that specifically 
defines the rules, limitations, recommendations and requirements for 
users to use the spacecraft.

3) The default operating mode should generally be optimized to satisfy 
the largest cross-section of users while balancing simplicity with 
complexity and easy use with experimental modes.

These points will be addressed in reverse order.

DEFAULT OPERATIONS MODE:
-------------------------------
To minimize frequent mode changes and to provide the most users with
something they can use most of the time, this paper proposes a nominal
initial operating configuration.  Other experiments may be conducted
periodically and other modes developed as software matures, but we 
need to start somewhere.  The basis for this approach is the consideration 
that for maximum utility in education, student and new operator outreach, 
common modes must be available on a routine basis most of the time.  
Therefore the following default operating mode is proposed for the 4 uplink 
receivers.  I called this configure "WAVE" for its primary modes:

MODE RX   DESCRIPTION               UPLINK      DOWNLINK
---- --- -------------------------- ----------  -----------
 W   RX1 WISP Multiuser File System 145.xxx     4W 435.xxx
 A   RX2 WISP and APRS shared       145.yyy     (shared with above)
 V   RX3 Voice FM (PL enabled)      145.zzz     8W 435.zzz
 E   RX4 Experimental
 -       (HF) Multiuser             29.400      S-Band WFM
         (LV) Lband Voice           12xx.xxx    S-Band WFM
         (LB) Lband Bent Pipe       12xx.xxx    S-Band WFM
         (LD) Lband digital         12xx.xxx    S-Band Digital

Key factors involved in this arrangement are:

WISP:  A continuation of the very successful file store and forward system 
use by all of the previous PACSATS.  With two uplinks (RX1 and RX2), 
user contention is shared for improved uplink throughput.  Distribution of 
files, news and bulletins will be via this system.  The default baudrate is 
9600 baud.  This system will best serve mobile portable and remote travelers 
by giving them remote communications access via SATgates back to the 
internet.  I'd rather see 9600 baud used to give solid reliability to simple 
users with OMNI antennas most of the time, rather than giving higher speed 
but then requiring tracking.

APRS:  APRS mode simply represents the enabling of UI digipeating of UI
packets to be merged into the 9600 baud digital downlink.  Enabling of UI 
digipeating as a shared mode with the PACSATS has a legacy that includes 
AO-16, UO-22 and IO-26.  UI digipeating users are constrained to only uplink 
on Receiver RX2 to minimize contention with the WISP system.  UI digipeating 
is fully compatible with the Kenwood TM-D700 and TH-D7 Mobile and Handheld 
APRS radios with only whip antennas.  APRS I-gates feed all UI packets heard 
on the downlink into the worldwide APRS internet system.

VOICE:  FM Voice relay (EZ-Sat) continues the legacy of UO-14, AO-27, 
SUNSAT, SO-50 and others to support the most popular AMSAT mode which can be 
received by any user with an FM HT.  Voice and SSTV may share this mode when 
suitable nets are scheduled to support special events.

EXPERIMENTAL: Because of the very high doppler and short duration passes, 
the S-Band downlink will use Wideband FM compatible with any FM broadcast 
band receiver as the nominal mode for this transmitter.  Using 75 KHz 
deviation, Only minor Doppler adjustment twice or so per pass is required. 
Nominal AO-40 S-Band receive systems feeding any FM system set to Wideband 
FM should work well for the downlink.  Several experimental uplinks 
are proposed:

(HF) HF (CW,SSTV,PSK-31) - The preferred default for the experimental 
RX4 receiver should be a 10m HF uplink which can contain dozens of
simultaneous users including CW, SSTV and PSK-31.  By tuning the HF
receiver to 29.400, an entire 3 KHz of HF spectrum can be relayed full
duplex in the wideband FM downlink.  This is Identical to the HF
transponder on PCSAT2. In this 3 KHz of audio, the lower 800 Hz can be
multiple narrowband CW users, 800 to 2000 Hz is available for SSTV, and      
2000 to 3000 Hz is dedicated to PSK-31 users.  This downlink can be
received, demodulated and displayed by anyone with an S-Band
downconverter, a broadcast band WFM receiver and soundcard DSP software.

(LV) L-BAND VOICE:  The RX4 can be tuned to any L-Band uplink 
(preferably set to Wideband FM) for experiments.  Using Wideband FM on 
the uplink and S-Band downlink solves the severe Doppler problem, though 
amateurs will have to build their own WFM exciters.

(LB) L-BAND BENT-PIPE DIGITAL:  Using WFM digital modulation fed to the
the wideband FM S-band downlink, data rates up to 38.4 KHz or higher can 
be accomodated in a bent-pipe mode.

(LD) L-BAND DIGITAL:  Unfortunately, The S-Band transmitter shares the
same data modulator as the UHF transmitters, so any use of S-Band for 
high on-board-originated data rates precludes any other digital modes or 
data rates on UHF at the same time.

USER SERVICE AGREEMENT   
----------------------

The concept of a User Service Agreement worked well for PCsat.  After 
some initial consternation, most users in the Amateur Satellite Service 
soon realized that having a well known and published set of guidelines,
recommendatoins, and rules for standard operation were in their own best 
interest.  Having operating parameters, protocols and clearly defined 
operating objectives published and available in real time via a WEB page 
and via the live downlink bulletins gave users clear guidance how to 
optimize operating modes for everyone.

For example the WISP channel clearly only works well if all users are
using the WISP protocol which enforces unbiased sharing.  Similarly, the 
APRS channel works best if users adhere to the standard APRS duty-cycle 
recommendations and power levels.

These same guidelines should also apply to the Voice transponder.  That
is, there will be times when free-for-all QSO's are invited, but in
general it has clearly been established that maximum effectiveness of a    
operating as a directed net.    The details of recommended VOICE operating 
nets via LEO birds is beyond the scope of this text, but is included on 
http://www.ew.usna.edu/~bruninga/tbd.html

ECHO OPERATIONS COMMITTEE
-------------------------

AMSAT-NA president Robin Haughton and Director Rick Hambly have already
begun the groundwork for establishing the Echo Operations Committee.  I
look forward to the operations of this body and the potential for good
leadership and efficient operations planning for this new satellite.  
The first item should be the declaration of a mission statement which 
will serve as the guiding principles for operations.  A possible 
strawman draft might be:

SUGGESTED ECHO MISSION STATEMENT:

The mission of ECHO will be to serve the communications needs of users
worldwide in the Amateur Satellite Service in accordance with the rules  
and objectives of the ITU and IARU.  Such usage will balance the needs 
for reliable routine digital and voice communications as well as 
experimental modes.  Included in this service is the recognition of the 
educational and out-reach potential of this simple-to-use, but highly 
flexible spacecraft as well as its potential use for mobile and portable 
operation in remote areas and support of emergency or special event 
comunications needs.


Respectuflly Submitted


Bob Bruninga, WB4APR
                            