Preliminary Results of the Amateur Radio on the International Space 
Station (ARISS) meeting at NASA Goddard 5-7 Dec 2002
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 WB4APR

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:  It appears we have gotten approval from ARISS to
proceed with PCsat2 (though we won't know the exact wording or limitations
(if any) until the formal minutes.  We also made many other contributions
to the ARISS committee meeting and future project concepts.  Because PCsat
pushes the envelope of the Amateur Satellite Service on the International
Space Station, we were tasked with developing a draft freuency planning
doecument for the future of all applications within the ARISS perview.

DETAILS:  The PCsat2 Project Opportunity was presented to the ARISS
delegates at the semi-annual meeting held this year at NASA Goddard.  The
4 day meeting opened with the chairman noting some of the challenges in
the coming year and one of the topics mentioned was the potential for
external ISS experiments that may want to use the Amateur Satellite
Service while pushing the envelope of what may or may not be appropriate
for that service.

While this comment was intended only as a summary comment, the ensuing
animated discussion made it obvious that this was a tough issue and it was
soon clear that the Naval Academy presentation scheduled for Friday would
be the focal point of this topic.

By the time Friday came, the agenda was a half day behind and so the
PCsat2 presentation was moved to Saturday morning to assure adequate time
to discuss this important issue.  To summarize the presentation, the hot
issues of pecuniary interest, proprietary data, and DOD involvement
immediately pushed many buttons and much comment was generated before even
the first few slides could be presented.

PCSAT2 PRESENTATION: But after the initial response, and as the
presentation was able to proceed as planned, voiced concerns faded and by
the end of the presentation, there seemed to be a general feeling of
guarded optimism with only a few delegates reserving judgment until they
had time to digest the material.  We closed with the comment that what we
needed from ARISS was an endorsement of the concept and that we also
needed from AMSAT a statement in principle that the PCsat mission as
presented was in fact fully within the rules and intent of the
International rules for the Amateur Satellite Service.

PCsat2 RESULTS:  The Committee agreed to meet in closed session after the
formal agenda but before any of the primary delegates left the USA.  As of
this writing, I have heard that the results were "good news" though it may
be a day or so before I have any details.

CONCLUSION:  I think the way we organized the PCsat2/MISSE5 experiment
and prepared the communications design to fit within a fully compliant
niche in the ITU rules was the key to the success of this approach, and in
fact, could pave the way for many follow-on missions to the ISS using the
MISSE experiment container.

FUTURE ARISS COORDINATION:  Further, although there was quite a range in
the delegations betwen technical and non technical members, I am pleased
with the personal raport we developed with the key Russian delegate who
was very interested in the techincal details and compatibility.  He also
seemed to share my vision for the future of many of the other experiments
planned and proposed for ARISS.

ARISS FREQUENCY PLANNING:  We came away tasked with the job of working
up a frequency planning document for all future ARISS missions, since
PCsat2 will be the first excursion beyond the very hard won international
frequencies determined back in the l997 time frame.  Fortunately the
global reach of APRS back then had placed us in the key position of
vacating a single APRS frequency yielding an otherwise unavailable
frequency for ISS.  This compromise lead to a global uncontested frequency
for ARISS and North American clear channel for APRS.  Further it
established the seeds of cooperation between the two interests that serve
us both well.

HF CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS:  Further, seeing the Russian plans for adding HF
frequencies and equipment to ARISS in 2003, we propsed a concept of
operations that had not previously been considered. This concept of
operations offers an order of magnitude better communications between the
crew and schools on the ground by operating in full duplex, allowing the
schools to observe ,if not directly participate, in any other school
contacts, not just their own.

FULL DUPLEX SCHOOL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM:  A final contribution we made to
the meeting was the observation that the long awaited full duplex
communications system for school contacts did not have to wait until the
future Phase2 hardware, but that there was sufficient transmitters and
receivers on board right now to accompliesh this mission with the only
missing ingredient being a simple audio cable. We proposed an effort to
send up the audio cable on a Russian resupply mission soon, instead of
waiting for the full phase two.  ALso, by having the audio cable, then the
old phase 1 simplex Erricsson radios did not have to be abandoned when
phase 2 hardware was eventually activated in the USA Habitability module
but that it could continue to operate as a second system in the FGB for
the Russian segment for several more years.

ASTRONAUT-SCHOOL CONACT BACKLOG:  THe ARISS Operations committee reported
that the current school backlog for Astronaut to school communications was
on the order of 2 years and growing longer. But with PCsat-2, I was able
to point out that the School-to-astronaut backlog could be improved by an
order of magnitude by using the full duplex transponder on PCsat2. to
simply link school events to Astronauts at JSC "via" ISS instead of having
to schedule and use up the very valuable time of the Astronatuts in space.
To the school and the students, the geometry, and communications would be
the same, but it could be done on many orbits, not just one every week or
so because it used a larger pool of astronauts on the ground.

THe meeting was a very rewarding event.


Bob Bruninga
USNA Satellite Lab
410-293-6417



