PCSAT2 Day 1 Summary:                           4 August 2005
-------------------------------------------------------------

Day one for PCSAT2 deployment was an amazing exercise since
our Naval Academy ground station and all web pages were down,
dark and hot throughtout the on-orbit installation and 
activation.  This was due to a LONG planned building power 
outage to move the AC Power System onto the roof from its 
16 foot below sea level location which was totally flooded 
during Isabel 2 years ago.  We ran our radios and 7 laptops 
and one lamp in a sweltering dark building (outside temps
in the mid-90's) without HVAC for 4 days via a very long 
extension cord from another building.  

Not only our web pages were down, but we only had Email via a 
wireless lan to a laptop.  Fortunately we had a special 
telephone rigged and were able to stay on a round-the-world
teleconference call with our other ground stations.

After Deployment, PCSAT2 minimum operating commands were 
established by USNA ground station on a lucky 2 deg last-pass
of the day.  But the short access did not allow initializing 
the FTSCE solar cell experiment.  Without another pass for 14
hours, we spent the next 24 hours on a continuous telcon with
our backup command stations making incremental progress in 
activating the FTSCE experiment.

FTSCE was activated  7 hours later by our NZ station but poor
downlinks over 6 more passes yielded little meaningful FTSCE 
data.  After 14 hours or so, on USNA's first pass of the new 
day,we did get 44 of 54 data lines and subsequent passes 
yielded similar results on the next 6 USNA passes.

By mid-day, the automatic WEB page telemetry was beginning to 
work and ALOGGER data collection was working very well from 
SOuth Africa and the western USA.

Battery voltage remained nominal at 14 volts and peak charge 
as high as 1.5 amps out of a possible 1.8 amps were observed 
even at this 25 or so degree beta angle.

Once FTSCE data was flowing, we activated and tested the 
PSK-31 transponder and voice repeater.  Both were nominal.  
On the 1755z pass the PSK-31 transponder was left on for a 
whole orbit and the fail-safe timer properly reduced the 
duty cycle to 50%.  We successfully turned it off on the 
last 1930z pass for the day.

Final settings were also made to reduce telemetry from 10 
sec to 20 sec in order to halve the TX power used over the 
next 14 hours of no access.  Also telemetry was reduced to 
only the 1200 baud set and not the 9600 baud courtesy copy.  
The FTSCE beacon was left on.

NASA Glen also was getting good data by the end of the day 
and was satisfied with the quantity to allow analysis.  
Overall, no system anomolies were observed.  All voltages 
and currents were nominal.  Temperatures did decay from about
10C initially down to about 4C over the 32 hour period.

Most stations did observe better signals during the first 
half of most passes probably due to ISS attitude and PCSAT2 
blockage.

Also the decision was made at JSC that PCSAT2 would not have 
to be shut down on every EVA or arm operations, but only if 
operations were  within 14 meters of our antennas.

After more than 36 hours of continuous operation at USNA 
operations on PCSAT2 were secured and efforts shifted to 
ANDE final integration items that are due on Friday at NRL.

Many thanks to our volunteers in CA, NZ, AUS, and the UK who 
remained on-line with us for more than 24 hours until 
initial operations were nominal.  Also thanks to the 
Telemetry and APRS web-master volunteers, software authors 
and amateur radio volunteer ground stations who made the 
global data collection effort possible.

Postscript.  A note about PCSAT2 was posted on a popular 
news group called slashdot and

"In terms of the numbers, there were about 40,000 extra 
visits and over a million extra hits in the last 18 hours..."

We have no data on our own USNA actual PCSAT2 web pages since 
the entire building was down as well as our web pages, HVAC 
and power.  The entire USNA PCSAT2 initial operations and
checkouit was conducted on emergency power over 3 days on one 
15 amp emergency circuit with one lamp, a few flashlights, 
radios and 7 laptops.

Many thanks to the USNA infrastructure technicians that made 
sure we had the power circuit, telephone and a wireless LAN 
into one laptop.

Bob Bruninga
USNA Satellite Lab

