PCsat2 ISS External Communications Payload Geneology           21 Nov 2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    WB4APR

To help clarify how this PCsat2 project envolved to arrive at where it
seems to be today, I offer the following chronolgy of events.  It began
as an idea for an  ARISS-EXCOMM project and was presented to the ARISS
team in April 2002.  And in August it began its slow progression from
the very bottom of the multi-year DOD process to get on the list for
a possible project in the 2006/2007 and out year process...  That full 
EXCOMM proposal is still wending its way through that long process.  But 
in about late September, early October, a fully funded Launch Opportunity 
began to evolve independently of the long formal process for the ARISS
EXCOMM preoposal.  This spin-off idea is what has now become the fast-
track PCsat2 proposal.

1998 to  2002:  The planned External Comms Pallet that had long been part
                of the ARISS long range experiment planning was getting
                no where.  The project with Brazil to develop the 
                external pallet had not materialized.  The project was at
                a stand still.

21 March 2002:  Prepared "External ISS Communications Experiment" brief
                as a result of an Email idea from Carolynn Conley about 
                looking for other ways to get an external experiment
                and possibly partnering with DOD for funding of a mutual 
                project.

6 April 2002:   Presented this EX-COMM idea to the ARISS International
                meeting in Montreal (via Teleconference) where, after
                some heated discussion, there was a consensus of the
                committee that the Naval Academy should continue to
                investigate this possiblity of a joint DOD/NASA/ARISS
                partnership to get an external COMMS payload on ISS.

17 April 2002:  Meeting at Naval Academy with Frank Bauer, Carolynn Conley 
                and Ron Parise to further discuss this concept.

                No activty for months.  But then realized the annual process
                for presenting new projects for DOD consideration was
                approaching and in late August, re-did the presentation
                into the 4-slide format for presentation to the Navy
                Space Experiments Review Board (the entry gate in a once a
                year process for getting to present at the DOD board)...

27 Aug 2002:    Presented ARISS-EXCOMM presentation to the Navy Space
                Experiments Review Board.  The Project Title was 
                changed to S.C.I.E.N.C.E which stands for Space
                Communications International Educational Network -
                Classroom Experience to emphasize the Educational
                and classroom outreach mission of ARISS to the Navy.

9 Sept 2002:    The S.C.I.E.N.C.E presentation materials were accepted by 
                the Navy as a proposal that could go forward and be 
                presented to the full DOD board in November.

3 Sept 2002:    Other presenters at the Navy SERB aware of other
                projects had seen our SCIENCE presentation and informed 
                us later that they were sending up a PASSIVE experiment 
                box for external attachment to the ISS and that there 
                could be room inside for an Amateur Satellite Experiment.  
                But this was an unofficial informal conversation...

13 Sept 2002:   This MISSE-5/PEC team began to discuss the addition of
                a PCsat like transponder to their passive mission.
                                 
20 Sept 2002:   Submitted S.C.I.E.N.C.E Presentation to Barry - VA3BJD 
                the secretary for the ARISS Project Selection and Use 
                committee for placement on the Agenda for the December
                ARISS meeting at NASA Goddard

 2 Oct 2002:    USNA invited to participate in a TELCON with PEC-MISSE-5
                team to discuss possibility of flying PCsat2 payload
                on MISSE-5.

 8 Oct 2002:    Results from the TELCON appeared favorable and so I emailed
                a full discription of the PEC-MISSE-5/PCsat2 concept to
                the USA ARISS delegation and initiated a PCsat2 WEB page
                to disclose all concept details as they began to develop.

18 Oct 2002:    Navy Research Labs PEC-MISSE5 project team visits Naval
                Academy to determine if we are committed to the project.

23 Oct 2002:    Prelimnary PEC-MISSE-5 TELCON with JSC Safety folks 
                regarding hurdles due to changing PEC/MISSE-5 from 
                passive to active experiment.

25 Oct 2002:    Frank Bauer responds with ARISS questions about the project.

31 Oct 2002:    PEC-MISSE5 has teleconference Technical Interchange Meeting
                with JSC NASA Safety Review Panel on the concepts to be
                used for EVA safety during the deployment of the PEC
                experiment hardware.

 6 Nov 2002:    SCIENCE Project is presented to the DOD Space Experiments
                Review Board for consideration for project funding in the
                outyears 2006/2007 time frame..  This project is now
                independent and separate from PE-MISSE5 and on such a long
                term path as to be out of our present field of view.
                As of 22 Nov, no results from this presentation have been
                published.

 8 Nov 2002:    IARU Frequency Coordination Request for PCsat2 is submitted 
                to IARU through the AMSAT-NA point of contact and 
                simultaneously to the USA ARISS Delegation.

22 Nov 2002:    Today's date-----------------------------------------------

26 Nov 2002:    PCsat2/PEC-MISSE5 Preliminary Design Review Meeting is
                scheduled at Naval Research Labs for 10 AM.

Early DEC:      Next planned Meeting of the ARISS Project Selection and Use 
                Committee to meet at NASA Goddard, date and time TBD...
