APRS PRECISION AND DATUM OPTION                                18 APRIL 2004
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      WB4APR

Updated 7 May 2008 for clarity
Updated 1 May 2006 to add some examples.

This proposed enhancement to the APRS spec is to allow for greater precision
to be transmitted between users.  But since precision without the accuracy
of the datum is meaningless, this format also includes the identificaiton
of the datum used to gain this precision.

DATUM:  The default datum for GPS and for APRS is WGS84.  This is specified
in the APRS spec that all on-air positions are assumed to be WGS84 unless
otherwise indicated.  This "option" then documents two such methods for
"otherwise indicating":

BY COUNTRY: or Continental local agreement.  Two such agreements have been
   declared:  WGS84 in North America and OSGB36 in the UK.  If others can 
   be agreed, they will be listed.

BY DATUM BYTE:   the DATUM byte in this "PRECISION and DATUM Option".


FORMAT:  The format of this APRS Precision-and-Datum option is the presence
of a 5 byte field !DAO! appearing anywhere in the position comment field.
This option is backwards compatible beacause the basic DDMM.HH/DDDMM.HH 
format is retained and will still be decoded by all existing applications.
The !DAO! simply provides the additional precision down to a foot or so
and also identifies the datum:

   !DAO! - is fixed length anywhere in the position commment
    D    - is the datum identifier (base-91)
     A   - is the added LAtitude precision (base-91)
      O  - is the added LOngitude precision (base-91)

RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend placing this option on the END of all other
position comment text.  This way it does not displace any human readable
comment text that is otherwise desired to display on older systems.  This
added option may extend beyond the existing "viewable" limit of 57 bytes
currently in the spec since these added bytes are not used by legacy 
systems anyway.

PRECISION:  There are three degrees of precision offered by this option.

    1) HUMAN READABLE, Thousandths of a minute.  This is good to the
       nearest 6 feet or so and being human readable gives even users
       of the D7 and D700 or any other existing application the ability
       to human read position to 3 decimal digits of Minutes.  This 
       format is identified if the Datum byte is in uppercase.

    2) BASE-91.  This adds additional precision to the nearest 91/ten
       thousandth of a minute, or about 4 decimal fractional digits of
       a minute or about one foot.  This format is identified if the 
       datum byte is in lowercase.

    3) NULL.  If the A and O bytes are SPACE characers, then they
       are only there to fulfill the !DAO! format and imply NO ADDED
       precision.  This is used when one wants to send DATUM info
       but without claming added precision.  This use of space characters
       to imply lacking digits of precision is consistent with the
       existing APRS ambiguity system.

DATUMS:  There are several categories of datums that can be used.

PRE-DEFINED: The Letters A-Z and a-z indicate one of 26 common datums.   
         The case of these 26 letters indicates which precision is used.  
         Capital letters indicate human readable decimal digits for A 
         and O, and lower case indicates base 91 encoding for A and O.  
         There are 26 pre-defined DATUMS.  A table will be prepared of
         the 26 common datums.  Here are some examples:
         W = WGS84
         N = NAD27
         O = OSGB36

LOCAL CUSTOM:  For special and closed events, the DATUM can be one of
         ten locally defined options.  These are indicated by the 
         digits 0 through 9.  One creative use of this is for closed
         events using fixed maps or venues.  These digits could define
         the maps by number!

BASE-91 ENCODING:  Base-91 is used frequently in APRS to improve the
         resolution of a byte without using Binary and while still using
         only the printable ASCII character subset.  Using only printable
         ASCII has many benefits and advantages that have been discussed
         ad nausium elsewhere.  Base 91 simply means the value of an
         ASCII byte after subtracting decimal 33  Thus the character
         "!" minus 33 is "0" on up to the character "}" minus 33 which
         has the value "90"

OTHER:   There remains 28 other possiblities of DATUM information in
         the D digit that can be used if needed.

Examples:

!W23! means it is WGS84 and the upper case indicates it is the human
readable 3rd digit format.  "2" is the third decimal digit of latitude
minutes and is human readable.  "3" is the added digit of longitude 
minutes and is also human readable.

!wAb! means it is WGS84 but the lower case indicates this is the added
precision to the nearest foot.  "A" is the base 91 code for two more 
digits (65 minus 33 yields "32") and "b" is two more digits of longitude
(98 -33 or "...65").

!w:\! would also be WGS84 but with ":" and "\" decoding to two 
additional digits of "27" to latitude and "59" to longitude to the 
nearest foot or so.

BASE-91 CONVERSION:  In the first !W23! example above, the actual digits
are simply added to the existing LAT/LONG for example to add precision
to DDMM.mmN/DDDMM.mmW to be come equivalent to DDMM.mm2N and DDDMM.mm3W.

But in the next two examples !wAb! and !w:\! the added two digits 
cannot simply be added to the ASCII position string, since they can only
go from 00 to 90.  THus they need to be scaled so that they go from
00 to 99.  Do this by multiplying the two digits by 1.10.  So for the
!wAb! example with added latitude digits of 32, you multiply that by
1.10 to arrive at an actual added digits of 35.2.  So the high precision
latitude becomes DDMM.mm352N.

Return to the APRS Errata web page:
http://www.ew.usna.edu/~bruninga/aprs/errata.html

de WB4APR, Bob
